
### §12643. Edward Byrne Memorial Formula Grant Program ###

§12643. Edward Byrne Memorial Formula Grant Program

Nothing in this Act shall be construed to prohibit or exclude the expenditure of appropriations to grant recipients that would have been or are eligible to receive grants under subpart 1 of part E of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 [34 U.S.C. 10151 et seq.].

(Pub. L. 103–322, title XXXII, §320919, Sept. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 2130.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

This Act, referred to in text, is Pub. L. 103–322, Sept. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 1796, known as the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1994 Act note set out under section 10101 of this title and Tables.

The Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, referred to in text, is Pub. L. 90–351, June 19, 1968, 82 Stat. 197. The reference to subpart 1 of part E of the Act probably means subpart 1 of part E of title I of the Act which is classified generally to part A (§10151 et seq.) of subchapter V of chapter 101 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1968 Act note set out under section 10101 of this title and Tables.

#### Codification ####

Section was formerly classified to section 14223 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

## Subtitle II—Protection of Children and Other Persons ##

### **CHAPTER 201—VICTIM RIGHTS, COMPENSATION, AND ASSISTANCE** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—CRIME VICTIMS FUND ####

Sec.
20101.Crime Victims Fund.
20102.Crime victim compensation.
20103.Crime victim assistance.
20104.Child abuse prevention and treatment grants.
20105.Compensation and assistance to victims of terrorism or mass violence.
20106.Compensation to victims of international terrorism.
20107.Crime victims legal assistance grants.
20108.Crime victims notification grants.
20109.Sexual assault survivors' notification grants.
20110.Administrative provisions.
20111.Establishment of Office for Victims of Crime.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—VICTIMS OF DOMESTIC VIOLENCE, DATING VIOLENCE, SEXUAL ASSAULT, AND STALKING ####

20121.Legal assistance for victims.
20122.Education, training, and enhanced services to end violence against and abuse of individuals with disabilities and Deaf people.
20123.Grants for outreach and services to underserved populations.
20124.Enhancing culturally specific services for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking.
20125.Grants to combat violent crimes on campuses.
20126.Consultation.
20127.Emergency and transitional pet shelter and housing assistance grant program.
20128.Agency and department coordination.
20129.LGBT specific services program.
20130.Study and reports on barriers to survivors' economic security access.
20131.Media campaign.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—ADDITIONAL VICTIM COMPENSATION AND SERVICES ####

20141.Services to victims.
20142.Closed circuit televised court proceedings for victims of crime.
20143.Grants for young witness assistance.
20144.Justice for United States victims of state sponsored terrorism.
20145.Elimination of barriers.

### SUBCHAPTER I—CRIME VICTIMS FUND ###

