
### §11152. Reports and memoranda of understanding ###

§11152. Reports and memoranda of understanding

#### (a) Annual reports to Congress ####

The Secretary shall report to Congress, annually during the three years after November 14, 1986, on the implementation of this chapter.

#### (b) Memoranda of understanding ####

The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall seek to enter into memoranda of understanding with the Secretary of Defense and the Administrator of Veterans' Affairs to apply the provisions of subchapter II of this chapter to hospitals and other facilities and health care providers under the jurisdiction of the Secretary or Administrator, respectively. The Secretary shall report to Congress, not later than two years after November 14, 1986, on any such memoranda and on the cooperation among such officials in establishing such memoranda.

#### (c) Memorandum of understanding with Drug Enforcement Administration ####

The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall seek to enter into a memorandum of understanding with the Administrator of Drug Enforcement relating to providing for the reporting by the Administrator to the Secretary of information respecting physicians and other practitioners whose registration to dispense controlled substances has been suspended or revoked under section 824 of title 21. The Secretary shall report to Congress, not later than two years after November 14, 1986, on any such memorandum and on the cooperation between the Secretary and the Administrator in establishing such a memorandum.

(Pub. L. 99–660, title IV, §432, Nov. 14, 1986, 100 Stat. 3794.)

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Change of Name ####

Reference to Administrator of Veterans' Affairs deemed to refer to Secretary of Veterans Affairs pursuant to section 10 of Pub. L. 100–527, set out as a Department of Veterans Affairs Act note under section 301 of Title 38, Veterans' Benefits.

### **CHAPTER 118—ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE AND RELATED DEMENTIAS RESEARCH** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ####

Sec.
11201.Findings.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—COUNCIL ON ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE ####

11211, 11212. Repealed.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—ADVISORY PANEL ON ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE ####

11221 to 11223. Omitted.
#### SUBCHAPTER III–A—NATIONAL ALZHEIMER'S PROJECT ####

11225.The National Alzheimer's Project.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—RESEARCH RELATING TO SERVICES FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE AND RELATED DEMENTIAS AND THEIR FAMILIES ####

11231, 11232. Repealed or Transferred.
11241 to 11243. Repealed or Transferred.

#### Part 1—Responsibilities of National Institute of Mental Health ####

11251.Research program and plan.
11252.Dissemination.
11253.Authorization of appropriations.
#### Part 2—Responsibilities of Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality ####

11261.Research program.
11262.Dissemination.
11263.Authorization of appropriations.
#### Part 3—Responsibilities of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services ####

11271.Research program and plan.
11272.Dissemination.
11273.Authorization of appropriations.
11281 to 11283. Repealed or Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER V—EDUCATIONAL ACTIVITIES ####

11291.Providing information for personnel of Social Security Administration.
11292.Education of public, individuals with Alzheimer's disease and their families, and health and long-term care providers.
11293.Education programs for safety and transportation personnel.
11294.Authorization of appropriations.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

Pub. L. 102–507, §2(b), Oct. 24, 1992, 106 Stat. 3281, struck out "SERVICES" before "RESEARCH" in chapter heading.

### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ###

