
### §8405. Enforcement by State attorneys general ###

§8405. Enforcement by State attorneys general

#### (a) Right of action ####

Except as provided in subsection (e), the attorney general of a State, or other authorized State officer, alleging a violation of this chapter or any regulation issued under this chapter that affects or may affect such State or its residents may bring an action on behalf of the residents of the State in any United States district court for the district in which the defendant is found, resides, or transacts business, or wherever venue is proper under section 1391 of title 28, to obtain appropriate injunctive relief.

#### (b) Notice to Commission required ####

A State shall provide prior written notice to the Federal Trade Commission of any civil action under subsection (a) together with a copy of its complaint, except that if it is not feasible for the State to provide such prior notice, the State shall provide such notice immediately upon instituting such action.

#### (c) Intervention by the Commission ####

The Commission may intervene in such civil action and upon intervening—

(1) be heard on all matters arising in such civil action; and

(2) file petitions for appeal of a decision in such civil action.

#### (d) Construction ####

Nothing in this section shall be construed—

(1) to prevent the attorney general of a State, or other authorized State officer, from exercising the powers conferred on the attorney general, or other authorized State officer, by the laws of such State; or

(2) to prohibit the attorney general of a State, or other authorized State officer, from proceeding in State or Federal court on the basis of an alleged violation of any civil or criminal statute of that State.

#### (e) Limitation ####

No separate suit shall be brought under this section if, at the time the suit is brought, the same alleged violation is the subject of a pending action by the Federal Trade Commission or the United States under this chapter.

(Pub. L. 111–345, §6, Dec. 29, 2010, 124 Stat. 3621.)

### **CHAPTER 111—WEATHER RESEARCH AND FORECASTING INNOVATION** ###

Sec.
8501.Definitions.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—UNITED STATES WEATHER RESEARCH AND FORECASTING IMPROVEMENT ####

8511.Public safety priority.
8512.Weather research and forecasting innovation.
8512a.Learning excellence and good examples from new developers.
8513.Tornado warning improvement and extension program.
8514.Hurricane forecast improvement program.
8515.Weather research and development planning.
8516.Observing system planning.
8517.Observing System Simulation Experiments.
8518.Computing resource efficiency improvement and annual report.
8519.Authorization of appropriations.
8520.United States Weather Research Program.
8521.Weather and climate information in agriculture.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—WEATHER SATELLITE AND DATA INNOVATION ####

8531.National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration satellite and data management.
8532.Commercial weather data.
8533.Unnecessary duplication.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—FEDERAL WEATHER COORDINATION ####

8541.Environmental Information Services Working Group.
8542.Interagency weather research and forecast innovation coordination.
8543.Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research and National Weather Service exchange program.
8544.Visiting fellows at National Weather Service.
8545.Warning coordination meteorologists at weather forecast offices of National Weather Service.
8546.National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Weather Ready All Hazards Award Program.
8547.Report on contract positions at National Weather Service.
8548.Weather enterprise outreach.
8549.Hurricane hunter aircraft.
8550.Improvements to Cooperative Observer Program of National Weather Service.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—IMPROVING FEDERAL PRECIPITATION INFORMATION ####

8561.Study on precipitation estimation.
8562.Improving probable maximum precipitation estimates.
8563.Definitions.

