
### §904. Hostage and Wrongful Detainee flag ###

§904. Hostage and Wrongful Detainee flag

(a) Designation.—The Hostage and Wrongful Detainee flag championed by the Bring Our Families Home Campaign is designated as the symbol of the commitment of the United States to recognizing, and prioritizing the freedom of, citizens and lawful permanent residents of the United States held as hostages or wrongfully detained abroad.

(b) Required Display.—

(1) In general.—The Hostage and Wrongful Detainee flag shall be displayed at the locations specified in paragraph (3) on the days specified in paragraph (2).

(2) Days specified.—The days specified in this paragraph are the following:

(A) U.S. Hostage and Wrongful Detainee Day, March 9.

(B) Flag Day, June 14.

(C) Independence Day, July 4.

(D) Any day on which a citizen or lawful permanent resident of the United States—

(i) returns to the United States from being held hostage or wrongfully detained abroad; or

(ii) dies while being held hostage or wrongfully detained abroad.

(3) Locations specified.—The locations specified in this paragraph are the following:

(A) The Capitol.

(B) The White House.

(C) The buildings containing the official office of—

(i) the Secretary of State; and

(ii) the Secretary of Defense.

(c) Display To Be in a Manner Visible to the Public.—Display of the Hostage and Wrongful Detainee flag pursuant to this section shall be in a manner designed to ensure visibility to the public.

(d) Limitation.—This section may not be construed or applied so as to require any employee to report to work solely for the purpose of providing for the display of the Hostage and Wrongful Detainee flag.

(Added Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVIII, §1804(a)(2)(A), Dec. 22, 2023, 137 Stat. 686.)

### Part B—United States Government Organizations Involved With Observances and Ceremonies ###

### **CHAPTER 21—AMERICAN BATTLE MONUMENTS COMMISSION** ###

Sec.
2101.Membership.
2102.Employment of personnel.
2103.Administrative.
2104.Military cemeteries in foreign countries.
2105.Monuments built by the United States Government.
2106.War memorials not built by the United States Government.
2107.National Memorial Cemetery of the Pacific.
2108.Pacific War Memorial and other historical and memorial sites on Corregidor.
2109.Foreign Currency Fluctuations Account.
2110.Claims against the Commission.
2111.Presidential duties and powers.
2112.Care and maintenance of Surrender Tree site.
2113.World War II memorial in the District of Columbia.
2114.Intellectual property and related items.
2115.Acquisition, operation, and maintenance of Lafayette Escadrille Memorial.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2016**—Pub. L. 114–227, §1(b), Sept. 29, 2016, 130 Stat. 934, added item 2115.

**1999**—Pub. L. 106–117, title VI, §§601(a)(2), 603(b), Nov. 30, 1999, 113 Stat. 1578, 1579, added items 2113 and 2114.

