
### §4846. State laws superseded, and null and void ###

§4846. State laws superseded, and null and void

It is hereby expressly declared that it is the intent of the Congress to supersede any and all laws of the States and units of local government insofar as they may now or hereafter provide for a requirement, prohibition, or standard relating to the lead content in paints or other similar surface-coating materials which differs from the provisions of this chapter or regulations issued pursuant to this chapter. Any law, regulation, or ordinance purporting to establish such different requirement, prohibition, or standard shall be null and void.

(Pub. L. 91–695, title V, §504, formerly §506, as added Pub. L. 93–151, §7(e), Nov. 9, 1973, 87 Stat. 568; renumbered §504, Pub. L. 95–626, title II, §208(b), Nov. 10, 1978, 92 Stat. 3588.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Prior Provisions ####

A prior section 504 of Pub. L. 91–695 was classified to section 4844 of this title prior to repeal by Pub. L. 95–626.

### **CHAPTER 63A—RESIDENTIAL LEAD-BASED PAINT HAZARD REDUCTION** ###

Sec.
4851.Findings.
4851a.Purposes.
4851b.Definitions.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—LEAD-BASED PAINT HAZARD REDUCTION ####

4852.Grants for lead-based paint hazard reduction in target housing.
4852a.Task force on lead-based paint hazard reduction and financing.
4852b.National consultation on lead-based paint hazard reduction.
4852c.Guidelines for lead-based paint hazard evaluation and reduction activities.
4852d.Disclosure of information concerning lead upon transfer of residential property.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—WORKER PROTECTION ####

4853.Worker protection.
4853a.Coordination between Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Labor.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ####

#### Part 1—HUD Research ####

4854.Research on lead exposure from other sources.
4854a.Testing technologies.
4854b.Authorization.
#### Part 2—GAO Report ####

4855.Federal implementation and insurance study.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—REPORTS ####

4856.Reports of Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.

