
### §3624. Additional program funding ###

§3624. Additional program funding

#### (a) Use of additional funds ####

Consistent, as determined by the President, with the obligations undertaken by the United States set forth in the Uruguay Round Agreements, the Commodity Credit Corporation shall use, in addition to any other funds appropriated or made available for such purposes, any funds made available under subsection (b) for authorized export promotion, foreign market development, export credit financing, and promoting the development, commercialization, and marketing of products resulting from alternative uses of agricultural commodities.

#### (b) Amount of additional funds ####

Amounts shall be credited to the Commodity Credit Corporation in fiscal year 1995 equal to the lesser of the dollar amount of—

(1) the fiscal year 1995 Pay-As-You-Go savings; and

(2) the 5-year Pay-As-You-Go savings;

under section 902 of title 2, resulting from the enactment of the Federal Crop Insurance Reform Act of 1994.

#### (c) Effective date ####

This section shall take effect on December 8, 1994.

(Pub. L. 103–465, title IV, §426, Dec. 8, 1994, 108 Stat. 4966.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

The Federal Crop Insurance Reform Act of 1994, referred to in subsec. (b), is title I of Pub. L. 103–354, Oct. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 3179. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1994 Amendment note set out under section 1501 of Title 7, Agriculture, and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date ####

Section effective on the date of entry into force of the WTO Agreement with respect to the United States (Jan. 1, 1995), except as otherwise provided, see section 451 of Pub. L. 103–465, set out as a note under section 3601 of this title.

### **CHAPTER 23—EXTENSION OF CERTAIN TRADE BENEFITS TO SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—TRADE POLICY FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA ####

Sec.
3701.Findings.
3702.Statement of policy.
3703.Eligibility requirements.
3704.United States-Sub-Saharan Africa Trade and Economic Cooperation Forum.
3705.Reporting requirement.
3706.Sub-Saharan Africa defined.
3707.Activities in support of transparency.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—TRADE BENEFITS ####

3721.Treatment of certain textiles and apparel.
3722.Protections against transshipment.
3723.Free trade agreements with sub-Saharan African countries.
3724.Assistant United States Trade Representative for African Affairs.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT RELATED ISSUES ####

3731.Sense of the Congress regarding comprehensive debt relief for the world's poorest countries.
3732.Executive branch initiatives.
3733.Overseas Private Investment Corporation initiatives.
3734.Export-Import Bank initiatives.
3735.Expansion of the United States and Foreign Commercial Service in sub-Saharan Africa.
3736.Donation of air traffic control equipment to eligible sub-Saharan African countries.
3737.Additional authorities and increased flexibility to provide assistance under the Development Fund for Africa.
3738.Assistance from United States private sector to prevent and reduce HIV/AIDS in sub-Saharan Africa.
3739.Sense of the Congress relating to HIV/AIDS crisis in sub-Saharan Africa.
3740.Study on improving African agricultural practices.
3741.Sense of the Congress regarding efforts to combat desertification in Africa and other countries.

### SUBCHAPTER I—TRADE POLICY FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA ###

