
### §3682. Assistant probation officers ###

§3682. Assistant probation officers

To the maximum extent practicable, the chief judge or chief probation or pretrial services officer of each judicial district, in coordination with the Office of Tribal Justice and the Office of Justice Services, shall—

(1) appoint individuals residing in Indian country to serve as probation or pretrial services officers or assistants for purposes of monitoring and providing services to Federal prisoners residing in Indian country; and

(2) provide substance abuse, mental health, and other related treatment services to offenders residing on Indian land.

(Pub. L. 106–559, title II, §203, as added Pub. L. 111–211, title II, §245, July 29, 2010, 124 Stat. 2295.)

### **CHAPTER 39—AMERICAN INDIAN AGRICULTURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT** ###

Sec.
3701.Findings.
3702.Purposes.
3703.Definitions.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—RANGELAND AND FARMLAND ENHANCEMENT ####

3711.Management of Indian rangelands and farmlands.
3712.Indian participation in land management activities.
3713.Indian agricultural lands trespass.
3714.Assessment of Indian agricultural management programs.
3715.Leasing of Indian agricultural lands.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—EDUCATION IN AGRICULTURE MANAGEMENT ####

3731.Indian and Alaska Native agriculture management education assistance programs.
3732.Postgraduation recruitment, education and training programs.
3733.Cooperative agreement between Department of the Interior and Indian tribes.
3734.Obligated service; breach of contract.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—GENERAL PROVISIONS ####

3741.Regulations.
3742.Trust responsibility.
3743.Severability.
3744.Federal, State and local authority.
3745.Authorization of appropriations.
3746.Tribal immunity.

