
### §7906. Services of post-combat case coordinators ###

§7906. Services of post-combat case coordinators

(a) Definitions.—For purposes of this section—

(1) the terms "employee", "agency",[1](#7906_1_target) "injury", "war-risk hazard", and "hostile force or individual" have the meanings given those terms in section 8101; and

(2) the term "qualified employee" means an employee as described in subsection (b).

(b) Requirement.—The head of each agency shall, in a manner consistent with the guidelines prescribed under subsection (c), provide for the assignment of a post-combat case coordinator in the case of any employee of such agency who suffers an injury or disability incurred, or an illness contracted, while in the performance of such employee's duties, as a result of a war-risk hazard or during or as a result of capture, detention, or other restraint by a hostile force or individual.

(c) Guidelines.—The Office of Personnel Management shall, after such consultation as the Office considers appropriate, prescribe guidelines for the operation of this section. Under the guidelines, the responsibilities of a post-combat case coordinator shall include—

(1) acting as the main point of contact for qualified employees seeking administrative guidance or assistance relating to benefits under chapter 81 or 89;

(2) assisting qualified employees in the collection of documentation or other supporting evidence for the expeditious processing of claims under chapter 81 or 89;

(3) assisting qualified employees in connection with the receipt of prescribed medical care and the coordination of benefits under chapter 81 or 89;

(4) resolving problems relating to the receipt of benefits under chapter 81 or 89; and

(5) ensuring that qualified employees are properly screened and receive appropriate treatment—

(A) for post-traumatic stress disorder or other similar disorder stemming from combat trauma; or

(B) for suicidal or homicidal thoughts or behaviors.

(d) Duration.—The services of a post-combat case coordinator shall remain available to a qualified employee until—

(1) such employee accepts or declines a reasonable offer of employment in a position in the employee's agency for which the employee is qualified, which is not lower than 2 grades (or pay levels) below the employee's grade (or pay level) before the occurrence or onset of the injury, disability, or illness (as referred to in subsection (a)), and which is within the employee's commuting area; or

(2) such employee gives written notice, in such manner as the employing agency prescribes, that those services are no longer desired or necessary.

(Added Pub. L. 112–81, div. A, title XI, §1106(a), Dec. 31, 2011, 125 Stat. 1613.)

[1 So in original. The definition of "agency" does not appear in section 8101 of this title.](#7906_1)

## Subpart G—Insurance and Annuities ##

### **CHAPTER 81—COMPENSATION FOR WORK INJURIES** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERALLY ####

Sec.
8101.Definitions.
8102.Compensation for disability or death of employee.
8102a.Death gratuity for injuries incurred in connection with employee's service with an Armed Force.
8103.Medical services and initial medical and other benefits.
8104.Vocational rehabilitation.
8105.Total disability.
8106.Partial disability.
8107.Compensation schedule.
8108.Reduction of compensation for subsequent injury to same member.
8109.Beneficiaries of awards unpaid at death; order of precedence.
8110.Augmented compensation for dependents.
8111.Additional compensation for services of attendants or vocational rehabilitation.
8112.Maximum and minimum monthly payments.
8113.Increase or decrease of basic compensation.
8114.Computation of pay.
8115.Determination of wage-earning capacity.
8116.Limitations on right to receive compensation.
8117.Time of accrual of right.
8118.Election to use annual or sick leave.[1](#CHAPTER81_1_target)
8119.Notice of injury or death.
8120.Report of injury.
8121.Claim.
8122.Time for making claim.
8123.Physical examinations.
8124.Findings and award; hearings.
8125.Misbehavior at proceedings.
8126.Subpenas; oaths; examination of witnesses.
8127.Representation; attorneys' fees.
8128.Review of award.
8129.Recovery of overpayments.
8130.Assignment of claim.
8131.Subrogation of the United States.
8132.Adjustment after recovery from a third person.
8133.Compensation in case of death.
8134.Funeral expenses; transportation of body.
8135.Lump-sum payment.
8136.Initial payments outside the United States.
8137.Compensation for noncitizens and nonresidents.
8138.Minimum limit modification for noncitizens and aliens.
8139.Employees of the District of Columbia.
8140.Members of the Reserve Officers' Training Corps.
8141.Civil Air Patrol volunteers.
8142.Peace Corps volunteers.
8143.Job Corps enrollees; volunteers in service to America.
8143a.Members of the National Teacher Corps.
8143b.Employees in fire protection activities.
8144.Student-employees.
8145.Administration.
8146.Administration for the Panama Canal Commission and The Alaska Railroad.
8146a.Cost-of-living adjustment of compensation.
8147.Employees' Compensation Fund.
8148.Forfeiture of benefits by convicted felons.
8149.Regulations.
8150.Effect on other statutes.
8151.Civil service retention rights.
8152.Annual report.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—EMPLOYEES OF NONAPPROPRIATED FUND INSTRUMENTALITIES ####

8171.Compensation for work injuries; generally.
8172.Employees not citizens or residents of the United States.
8173.Liability under this subchapter exclusive.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS NOT EMPLOYED BY THE UNITED STATES ####

8191.Determination of eligibility.
8192.Benefits.
8193.Administration.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2022**—Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LIII, §5305(a)(1)(B), Dec. 23, 2022, 136 Stat. 3253, which directed amendment of the analysis for subchapter I of this chapter by adding item 8143b, was executed by adding item 8143b to the analysis for this chapter to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

**2008**—Pub. L. 110–181, div. A, title XI, §1105(b), Jan. 28, 2008, 122 Stat. 349, added item 8102a.

**1995**—Pub. L. 104–66, title I, §1102(b)(3)(B), Dec. 21, 1995, 109 Stat. 723, added item 8152.

**1994**—Pub. L. 103–333, title I, §101(a)(2), Sept. 30, 1994, 108 Stat. 2547, added item 8148.

**1979**—Pub. L. 96–70, title III, §3302(e)(12), Sept. 27, 1979, 93 Stat. 499, substituted "Panama Canal Commission" for "Canal Zone" in item 8146.

**1974**—Pub. L. 93–416, §§12(b), 23(a), Sept. 7, 1974, 88 Stat. 1146, 1150, substituted "Notice of injury or death" for "Notice of injury; failure to give" in item 8119, and added item 8151.

**1968**—Pub. L. 90–291, §1(b), Apr. 19, 1968, 82 Stat. 100, added subchapter III consisting of items 8191, 8192, and 8193.

**1967**—Pub. L. 90–83, §1(59), (66)(B), (67)(B), (70), Sept. 11, 1967, 81 Stat. 211, 212, 213, inserted "; hearings" in item 8124, added item 8143a relating to members of the National Teachers Corps and item 8146a relating to cost-of-living adjustment of compensation, and struck out item 8148 relating to reports.

[1 So in original. Does not conform to section catchline.](#CHAPTER81_1)

### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERALLY ###

