
### §5162. Republican Policy Committee ###

§5162. Republican Policy Committee

#### (a) In general ####

There is established in the House of Representatives an office to be known as the Republican Policy Committee, which shall have such responsibilities as may be assigned by the Speaker of the House of Representatives (or, if the Speaker is not a member of the Republican Party, the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives).

#### (b) Salaries and expenses ####

There shall be a lump sum allowance for the salaries and expenses of the Republican Policy Committee, which shall be treated as a category of House leadership offices for purposes of section 5507(c) of this title, and which shall be obligated and expended as directed by the Speaker (or, if the Speaker is not a member of the Republican party, the Minority Leader).

#### (c) Applicability ####

This section shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2005 and each succeeding fiscal year.

(Pub. L. 108–447, div. G, title I, §109, Dec. 8, 2004, 118 Stat. 3177; Pub. L. 112–74, div. G, title I, §102(a), (b), Dec. 23, 2011, 125 Stat. 1121.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

Section was formerly classified to section 74a–13 of this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is from the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2005, which is div. G of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2005.

#### Amendments ####

**2011**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 112–74, §102(a), substituted "the Speaker of the House of Representatives (or, if the Speaker is not a member of the Republican Party, the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives)" for "the chair of the Republican Conference".

Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 112–74, §102(b), inserted ", and which shall be obligated and expended as directed by the Speaker (or, if the Speaker is not a member of the Republican party, the Minority Leader)" before period at end.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date of 2011 Amendment ####

Pub. L. 112–74, div. G, title I, §102(c), Dec. 23, 2011, 125 Stat. 1121, provided that: "The amendment made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2012 and each succeeding fiscal year."

### **CHAPTER 53—HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES MEMBERS** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—MEMBER PAY ####

Sec.
5301.Representatives' and Delegates' salaries payable monthly.
5302.Salaries payable monthly after taking oath.
5303.End-of-the-month salary payment schedule inapplicable to Senators.
5304.Salaries of Representatives, Delegates, and Resident Commissioners elected for unexpired terms.
5305.Disposition of unpaid salary and other sums on death of Representative or Resident Commissioner.
5306.Deductions for absence.
5307.Certification of salary and mileage accounts.
5308.Substitute to sign certificates for salary and accounts.
5309.Disbursement of compensation of House Members by Chief Administrative Officer.
5310.Certificate of salary during recess.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—EMPLOYEES ####

5321.Employees of Members of House of Representatives.
5322.Lyndon Baines Johnson congressional interns.
5322a.Allowance for compensation of interns in member offices.
5323.Pay of clerical assistants as affected by death of Senator or Representative.
5324.Pay of clerical assistants as affected by death or resignation of Member of House.
5325.Performance of duties by clerical assistants of dead or resigned Member of House.
5326."Member of the House" defined.
5327.Termination of service of Members of House.
5328.Authority to prescribe regulations.
5329.Vouchers.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—EXPENSES AND ALLOWANCES ####

5341.Representational allowance for Members of House of Representatives.
5342.Reimbursement of transportation expenses for employees in office of House Member.
5343.Staff expenses for House Members attending organizational caucus or conference.
5344.Payments and reimbursements for certain House staff expenses.
5345.Annotated United States Code for Members of House of Representatives to be paid for from Members' Representational Allowance.
5346.Transportation of official records and papers to House Member's district.
5347.Delivery of bills and resolutions.
5348.Delivery of Congressional Record.
5349.Limitation on printed copies of U.S. Code to House.
5350.Delivery of reports of disbursements.
5351.Delivery of Daily Calendar.
5352.Delivery of Congressional Pictorial Directory.

### SUBCHAPTER I—MEMBER PAY ###

