
### §5510. Authorization ###

§5510. Authorization

#### (a) Authorization of appropriations ####

There is hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Environmental Protection Agency to carry out this chapter not to exceed $12,000,000 for each fiscal year 1992 and 1993, not to exceed $13,000,000 for fiscal year 1994, and not to exceed $14,000,000 for each fiscal year 1995 and 1996.

#### (b) Limitations ####

Of such sums appropriated in a fiscal year, 25 percent shall be available for the activities of the Office of Environmental Education, 25 percent shall be available for the operation of the environmental education and training program, 38 percent shall be available for environmental education grants, 10 percent shall be available for support of the National Environmental Education and Training Foundation, and 2 percent shall be available to support awards pursuant to section 5507(e) of this title.

#### (c) Availability of funds to National Environmental Education and Training Foundation ####

Funds appropriated pursuant to this section may be made available to the National Environmental Education and Training Foundation to—

(1) match partially or wholly the amount or value of contributions (whether in currency, services, or property) made to the Foundation by private persons and State and local governments; and

(2) provide administrative services under section 5509(d) of this title:

*Provided*, That the Administrator determines that such funds will be used to carry out the statutory purposes of the Foundation in a manner consistent with the goals, objectives and programs of this chapter.

(Pub. L. 101–619, §11, Nov. 16, 1990, 104 Stat. 3339.)

### **CHAPTER 66—MORRIS K. UDALL AND STEWART L. UDALL FOUNDATION** ###

Sec.
5601.Findings.
5602.Definitions.
5603.Establishment of Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation.
5604.Purpose of Foundation.
5605.Authority of Foundation.
5606.Establishment of Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Trust Fund.
5607.Expenditures and audit of Trust Fund.
5607a.Environmental Dispute Resolution Fund.
5607b.Use of the National Center by Federal agency or other entity.
5608.Administrative provisions.
5609.Authorization of appropriations.

