
### §2312. Effective dates ###

§2312. Effective dates

#### (a) Effective date of chapter ####

Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section, this chapter shall take effect 6 months after January 4, 1975, but shall not apply to consumer products manufactured prior to such date.

#### (b) Effective date of section 2302(a) ####

Section 2302(a) of this title shall take effect 6 months after the final publication of rules respecting such section; except that the Commission, for good cause shown, may postpone the applicability of such sections until one year after such final publication in order to permit any designated classes of suppliers to bring their written warranties into compliance with rules promulgated pursuant to this chapter.

#### (c) Promulgation of rules ####

The Commission shall promulgate rules for initial implementation of this chapter as soon as possible after January 4, 1975, but in no event later than one year after such date.

(Pub. L. 93–637, title I, §112, Jan. 4, 1975, 88 Stat. 2192.)

### **CHAPTER 51—NATIONAL PRODUCTIVITY AND QUALITY OF WORKING LIFE** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—FINDINGS, PURPOSE, AND POLICY; DEFINITIONS ####

Sec.
2401.Congressional findings.
2402.Congressional statement of purpose.
2403.Congressional declaration of policy.
2404.Definitions.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—NATIONAL CENTER FOR PRODUCTIVITY AND QUALITY OF WORKING LIFE ####

2411.Establishment.
2412.Board of Directors.
2413.Executive Director and Deputy Director.
2414.Functions of the Center.
2415.Powers of the Center.
2416.Contracts and other funding arrangements.
2417.Criteria for participating parties.
2418.Annual report.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—FEDERAL AGENCY COORDINATION AND LIAISON WITH CENTER ####

2431.Liaison with Center.
2432.Internal review.
2433.Support of external activities.
2434.Internal productivity.
2435.Other statutory obligations
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS ####

2451.Authority of Executive Director.
#### SUBCHAPTER V—EVALUATION BY COMPTROLLER GENERAL ####

2461.Audit, review, and evaluation.
#### SUBCHAPTER VI—AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS ####

2471.Authorization of appropriations.

### SUBCHAPTER I—FINDINGS, PURPOSE, AND POLICY; DEFINITIONS ###

