
### §2307. Treatment of funds ###

§2307. Treatment of funds

Funds distributed under the provisions of this chapter shall not be considered as income or resources nor otherwise utilized as the basis for denying or reducing the financial assistance or other benefits to which such household or member would otherwise be entitled under the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 301 et seq.] or, except for per capita shares in excess of $2,000, any Federal or federally assisted program.

(Pub. L. 98–500, §8, Oct. 19, 1984, 98 Stat. 2319.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

The Social Security Act, referred to in text, is act Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531, 49 Stat. 620, which is classified generally to chapter 7 (§301 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 1305 of Title 42 and Tables.

### **CHAPTER 26—INDIAN ALCOHOL AND SUBSTANCE ABUSE PREVENTION AND TREATMENT** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ####

Sec.
2401.Congressional findings.
2402.Purpose.
2403.Definitions.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—COORDINATION OF RESOURCES AND PROGRAMS ####

2411.Inter-departmental Memorandum of Agreement.
2412.Tribal Action Plans.
2413.Departmental responsibility.
2414.Congressional intent in construction of laws.
2414a.Review of programs.
2415.Federal facilities, property, and equipment; leasing of tribal property.
2416.Newsletter.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—INDIAN YOUTH PROGRAMS ####

2431.Review of programs.
2432.Indian education programs.
2433.Emergency shelters.
2434.Social services reports.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—LAW ENFORCEMENT AND JUDICIAL SERVICES ####

2441.Review of programs.
2442.Illegal narcotics traffic on Tohono O'odham and St. Regis Reservations; source eradication.
#### SUBCHAPTER V—BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS LAW ENFORCEMENT ####

2451.Bureau of Indian Affairs law enforcement and judicial training.
2452.Medical assessment and treatment of juvenile offenders.
2453.Juvenile detention centers.
2454.Model Indian Juvenile Code.
2455.Law enforcement and judicial report.
#### SUBCHAPTER VI—INDIAN ALCOHOL AND SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT AND REHABILITATION ####

2471 to 2478. Transferred or Repealed.

### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ###

