
### §12410. Definitions ###

§12410. Definitions

As used in this part—

(1) the term "national crime information databases" refers to the National Crime Information Center and its incorporated criminal history databases, including the Interstate Identification Index; and

(2) the term "protection order" includes an injunction or any other order issued for the purpose of preventing violent or threatening acts or harassment against, or contact or communication with or physical proximity to, another person, including temporary and final orders issued by civil or criminal courts (other than support or child custody orders) whether obtained by filing an independent action or as a pendente lite order in another proceeding so long as any civil order was issued in response to a complaint, petition, or motion filed by or on behalf of a person seeking protection.

(Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, §40611, Sept. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 1952.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

Section was formerly classified to section 14040 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

### Part G—Training and Services To End Abuse Later in Life ###

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

This part was, in the original, subtitle H of title IV of Pub. L. 103–322, as added by Pub. L. 106–386, and was redesignated as part G of this subchapter for purposes of codification.

Pub. L. 117–103, div. W, title II, §204(1), Mar. 15, 2022, 136 Stat. 857, substituted "Training" for "Enhanced Training" in heading.

Pub. L. 113–4, title II, §204(a), Mar. 7, 2013, 127 Stat. 82, substituted "ENHANCED TRAINING AND SERVICES TO END ABUSE LATER IN LIFE" for "ELDER ABUSE, NEGLECT, AND EXPLOITATION, INCLUDING DOMESTIC VIOLENCE AND SEXUAL ASSAULT AGAINST OLDER OR DISABLED INDIVIDUALS" in heading.

