
### §1663a. Nevada Area Office ###

§1663a. Nevada Area Office

#### (a) In general ####

Not later than 1 year after March 23, 2010, in a manner consistent with the tribal consultation policy of the Service, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a plan describing the manner and schedule by which an area office, separate and distinct from the Phoenix Area Office of the Service, can be established in the State of Nevada.

#### (b) Failure to submit plan ####

#### (1) Definition of operations funds ####

In this subsection, the term "operations funds" means only the funds used for—

(A) the administration of services, including functional expenses such as overtime, personnel salaries, and associated benefits; or

(B) related tasks that directly affect the operations described in subparagraph (A).

#### (2) Withholding of funds ####

If the Secretary fails to submit a plan in accordance with subsection (a), the Secretary shall withhold the operations funds reserved for the Office of the Director, subject to the condition that the withholding shall not adversely impact the capacity of the Service to deliver health care services.

#### (3) Restoration ####

The operations funds withheld pursuant to paragraph (2) may be restored, at the discretion of the Secretary, to the Office of the Director on achievement by that Office of compliance with this section.

(Pub. L. 94–437, title VI, §604, as added Pub. L. 111–148, title X, §10221(a), Mar. 23, 2010, 124 Stat. 935.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

Section 604 of Pub. L. 94–437 is based on section 173 of title I of S. 1790, One Hundred Eleventh Congress, as reported by the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate in Dec. 2009, which was enacted into law by section 10221(a) of Pub. L. 111–148.

### SUBCHAPTER V–A—BEHAVIORAL HEALTH PROGRAMS ###

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

Title VII of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, comprising this subchapter, was originally enacted by Pub. L. 94–437, title VII, as added Pub. L. 102–573, title VII, §702(a), Oct. 29, 1992, 106 Stat. 4572, and amended by Pub. L. 104–313, Oct. 19, 1996, 110 Stat. 3820; Pub. L. 105–244, Oct. 7, 1998, 112 Stat. 1581; Pub. L. 105–256, Oct. 14, 1998, 112 Stat. 1896; Pub. L. 110–315, Aug. 14, 2008, 122 Stat. 3078. Such title is shown herein, however, as having been added by Pub. L. 111–148, title X, §10221(a), Mar. 23, 2010, 124 Stat. 935, without reference to such intervening amendments because of the extensive revision of the title's provisions by Pub. L. 111–148. A prior title VII was renumbered VIII by Pub. L. 102–573 and is classified to subchapter VI of this chapter.

### Part A—General Programs ###

