
### §202. Inducing conveyances by Indians of trust interests in lands ###

§202. Inducing conveyances by Indians of trust interests in lands

It shall be unlawful for any person to induce any Indian to execute any contract, deed, mortgage, or other instrument purporting to convey any land or any interest therein held by the United States in trust for such Indian, or to offer any such contract, deed, mortgage, or other instrument for record in the office of any recorder of deeds. Any person violating this provision shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500 for the first offense, and if convicted for a second offense may be punished by a fine not exceeding $500 or imprisonment not exceeding one year, or by both such fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the court. This section shall not apply to any lease or other contract authorized by law to be made.

(June 25, 1910, ch. 431, §5, 36 Stat. 857.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

Section was formerly classified to section 115 of Title 18, Criminal Code and Criminal Procedure, prior to the general revision and enactment of Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure, by act June 25, 1948, ch. 645, §1, 62 Stat. 683.

### **CHAPTER 6—GOVERNMENT OF INDIAN COUNTRY AND RESERVATIONS** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERALLY ####

Sec.
211.Creation of Indian reservations.
212 to 228. Repealed.
229.Injuries to property by Indians.
230.Depositions by agents touching depredations.
231.Enforcement of State laws affecting health and education; entry of State employees on Indian lands.
232.Jurisdiction of New York State over offenses committed on reservations within State.
233.Jurisdiction of New York State courts in civil actions.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—TRAFFIC IN INTOXICATING LIQUORS ####

241 to 252. Repealed.
253.Wines for sacramental purposes.
254.Repealed.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—TRADERS WITH INDIANS ####

261.Power to appoint traders with Indians.
262.Persons permitted to trade with Indians.
263.Prohibition of trade by President.
264.Trading without license; white persons as clerks.
265, 266.Repealed.

### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERALLY ###

