
### §158. Designation of United States attorneys and agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation to address abusive reaffirmations of debt and materially fraudulent statements in bankruptcy schedules ###

§158. Designation of United States attorneys and agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation to address abusive reaffirmations of debt and materially fraudulent statements in bankruptcy schedules

(a) In General.—The Attorney General of the United States shall designate the individuals described in subsection (b) to have primary responsibility in carrying out enforcement activities in addressing violations of section 152 or 157 relating to abusive reaffirmations of debt. In addition to addressing the violations referred to in the preceding sentence, the individuals described under subsection (b) shall address violations of section 152 or 157 relating to materially fraudulent statements in bankruptcy schedules that are intentionally false or intentionally misleading.

(b) United States Attorneys and Agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.—The individuals referred to in subsection (a) are—

(1) the United States attorney for each judicial district of the United States; and

(2) an agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation for each field office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

(c) Bankruptcy Investigations.—Each United States attorney designated under this section shall, in addition to any other responsibilities, have primary responsibility for carrying out the duties of a United States attorney under section 3057.

(d) Bankruptcy Procedures.—The bankruptcy courts shall establish procedures for referring any case that may contain a materially fraudulent statement in a bankruptcy schedule to the individuals designated under this section.

(Added Pub. L. 109–8, title II, §203(b)(1), Apr. 20, 2005, 119 Stat. 49.)

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date ####

Section effective 180 days after Apr. 20, 2005, and not applicable with respect to cases commenced under Title 11, Bankruptcy, before such effective date, except as otherwise provided, see section 1501 of Pub. L. 109–8, set out as an Effective Date of 2005 Amendment note under section 101 of Title 11.

### **CHAPTER 10—BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS** ###

Sec.
175.Prohibitions with respect to biological weapons.
175a.Requests for military assistance to enforce prohibition in certain emergencies.
175b.Select agents; certain other agents.[1](#CHAPTER10_1_target)
175c.Variola virus.
176.Seizure, forfeiture, and destruction.
177.Injunctions.
178.Definitions.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2004**—Pub. L. 108–458, title VI, §6911(b), Dec. 17, 2004, 118 Stat. 3775, added item 175c.

**2002**—Pub. L. 107–188, title II, §231(b)(2), June 12, 2002, 116 Stat. 661, substituted "Select agents; certain other agents" for "Possession by restricted persons" in item 175b.

**2001**—Pub. L. 107–56, title VIII, §817(3), Oct. 26, 2001, 115 Stat. 386, added item 175b.

**1996**—Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title XIV, §1416(c)(1)(B), Sept. 23, 1996, 110 Stat. 2723, added item 175a.

[1 So in original. Does not conform to section catchline.](#CHAPTER10_1)

