
### §9656. Aircraft and equipment: civilian aviation schools ###

§9656. Aircraft and equipment: civilian aviation schools

The Secretary of the Air Force, under regulations to be prescribed by him, may lend aircraft, aircraft parts, and aeronautical equipment and accessories that are required for instruction, training, and maintenance, to accredited civilian aviation schools at which personnel of the Department of the Air Force or the Department of the Army are pursuing a course of instruction and training under detail by competent orders.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 583; Pub. L. 97–295, §1(53), Oct. 12, 1982, 96 Stat. 1301.)

Historical and Revision Notes
1956 Act
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 9656 | 10:298b. | Apr. 3, 1939, ch. 35, §4, 53 Stat. 556. |

The words "in his discretion and", "rules", "limitations", and "on hand and belonging to the Government such articles as may appear to be" are omitted as surplusage. The words "Department of the Air Force or the Department of the Army" are substituted for the words "Military Establishment", since the authority is reciprocal.

#### 1982 Act ####

In 10:9656, the words ", and at least one of which is designated by the Civil Aeronautics Authority for the training of Negro air pilots" are stricken as obsolete.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**1982**—Pub. L. 97–295 struck out ", and at least one of which is designated by the Civil Aeronautics Authority for the training of Negro air pilots" after "competent orders".

### **CHAPTER 973—DISPOSAL OF OBSOLETE OR SURPLUS MATERIAL** ###

Sec.
[9681.Repealed.]
9682.Obsolete or excess material: sale to National Council of Boy Scouts of America.
9684.Surplus obsolete ordnance: sale to patriotic organizations.
9685.Obsolete ordnance: loan to educational institutions and State soldiers' and sailors' orphans' homes.
9686.Obsolete ordnance: gift to State homes for soldiers and sailors.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §806(d)(1), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1833, redesignated chapter 943 of this title as this chapter.

**2016**—Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title XII, §1253(a)(2)(E), Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2532, struck out item 9681 "Surplus war material: sale to States and foreign governments".

