
### §6507. Account in Treasury ###

§6507. Account in Treasury

(a) Establishment and Contents of Separate Account.—There is a separate account in the Treasury. The account includes all amounts deposited in the account under section 6506(f) of this title and amounts appropriated to the account. However, the appropriated amounts may not be more than $2,000,000.

(b) Use of Amounts.—Amounts in the account are available to the Architect of the Capitol—

(1) for paying expenses for structural, mechanical, and domestic care, maintenance, operation, and utilities of the Thurgood Marshall Federal Judiciary Building and other improvements constructed under this chapter;

(2) for reimbursing the United States Capitol Police for expenses incurred in providing exterior security for the Building and other improvements;

(3) for making lease payments under section 6504 of this title; and

(4) for necessary personnel (including consultants).

(Pub. L. 107–217, Aug. 21, 2002, 116 Stat. 1192.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 6507 | 40:1207. | Pub. L. 100–480, §9, Oct. 7, 1988, 102 Stat. 2334; Pub. L. 102–392, title III, §311(b), Oct. 6, 1992, 106 Stat. 1723. |

The text of 40:1207(b) is omitted as obsolete.

### **CHAPTER 67—PENNSYLVANIA AVENUE DEVELOPMENT** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—TRANSFER AND ASSIGNMENT OF RIGHTS, AUTHORITIES, TITLE, AND INTERESTS ####

Sec.
6701.Transfer of rights and authorities of Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation.
6702.Transfer and assignment of rights, title, and interests in property.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—PENNSYLVANIA AVENUE DEVELOPMENT ####

6711.Definition.
6712.Powers of other agencies and instrumentalities in the development area.
6713.Certification of new construction.
6714.Relocation services.
6715.Coordination with District of Columbia.
6716.Reports.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—FEDERAL TRIANGLE DEVELOPMENT ####

6731.Definitions.
6732.Federal Triangle development area.
6733.Federal Triangle property.
6734.Ronald Reagan Building and International Trade Center.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2006**—Pub. L. 109–284, §6(20), Sept. 27, 2006, 120 Stat. 1213, substituted "ASSIGNMENT" for "ASSIGMENT" in item for subchapter I.

### SUBCHAPTER I—TRANSFER AND ASSIGNMENT OF RIGHTS, AUTHORITIES, TITLE, AND INTERESTS ###

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2006**—Pub. L. 109–284, §6(21), Sept. 27, 2006, 120 Stat. 1213, substituted "ASSIGNMENT" for "ASSIGMENT" in heading.

