
### §5203. Enforcement ###

§5203. Enforcement

#### (a) Attorney General ####

The Attorney General shall take the necessary steps and institute the necessary legal action to effectuate the policies and provisions of this chapter.

#### (b) Relief ####

Any district court of the United States for a district in which a violation of this chapter occurs shall have authority, upon petition of relief by the Attorney General, to grant injunctive and such other equitable relief as it shall deem necessary to enforce the provisions of this chapter.

(Pub. L. 100–204, title X, §1004, Dec. 22, 1987, 101 Stat. 1407.)

### **CHAPTER 62—INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL POLICY** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—EXCHANGE RATES AND INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC POLICY COORDINATION ####

Sec.
5301.Short title.
5302.Findings.
5303.Statement of policy.
5304.International negotiations on exchange rate and economic policies.
5305.Reporting requirements.
5306.Definitions.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—INTERNATIONAL DEBT ####

#### Part A—Findings, Purposes, and Statement of Policy ####

5321.Short title.
5322.Findings.
5323.Purposes.
5324.Statement of policy.
#### Part B—International Debt Management Authority ####

5331.International initiative.
5332.Actions to facilitate creation of Authority.
5333.IMF-World Bank review.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—PRIMARY DEALERS ####

5341.Short title.
5342.Requirement of national treatment in underwriting government debt instruments.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—FINANCIAL REPORTS ####

5351.Short title.
5352.Quadrennial reports on foreign treatment of United States financial institutions.
5353.Fair trade in financial services.
5354.Banks loan loss reserves.

### SUBCHAPTER I—EXCHANGE RATES AND INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC POLICY COORDINATION ###

