
### §3211. Relationship to other authority ###

§3211. Relationship to other authority

Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit or affect any authority of the Secretary or the Commission under any other provision of law.

(Pub. L. 95–617, title III, §311, Nov. 9, 1978, 92 Stat. 3154.)

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Definitions ####

The definitions of Secretary and Commission in section 2602 of Title 16, Conservation, apply to this section.

### **CHAPTER 60—NATURAL GAS POLICY** ###

Sec.
3301.Definitions.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—WELLHEAD PRICING ####

3311 to 3320, 3331 to 3333. Repealed.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—INCREMENTAL PRICING ####

3341 to 3348. Repealed.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—ADDITIONAL AUTHORITIES AND REQUIREMENTS ####

#### Part A—Emergency Authority ####

3361.Declaration of emergency.
3362.Emergency purchase authority.
3363.Emergency allocation authority.
3364.Miscellaneous provisions.
#### Part B—Other Authorities and Requirements ####

3371.Authorization of certain sales and transportation.
3372.Assignment of contractual rights to receive surplus natural gas.
3373.Effect of certain natural gas prices on indefinite price escalator clauses.
3374.Clauses prohibiting certain sales, transportation, and commingling.
3375.Filing of contracts and agreements.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—NATURAL GAS CURTAILMENT POLICIES ####

3391.Natural gas for essential agricultural uses.
3391a."Essential agricultural use" defined.
3392.Natural gas for essential industrial process and feedstock uses.
3393.Establishment and implementation of priorities.
3394.Limitation on revoking or amending certain pre-1969 certificates of public convenience and necessity.
#### SUBCHAPTER V—ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT, AND REVIEW ####

3411.General rulemaking authority.
3412.Administrative procedure.
3413.Repealed.
3414.Enforcement.
3415.Intervention.
3416.Judicial review.
3417.Repealed.
3418.Applicability of other Federal statutory provisions relating to information-gathering.
#### SUBCHAPTER VI—COORDINATION WITH NATURAL GAS ACT; MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS ####

3431.Coordination with the Natural Gas Act.
3432.Effect on State laws.

