
### §113. Teachers' certificates dependent on passing examination on effect of alcoholic drinks and narcotics ###

§113. Teachers' certificates dependent on passing examination on effect of alcoholic drinks and narcotics

No certificate shall be granted to any person to teach in the public schools of the District of Columbia or Territories who has not passed a satisfactory examination in physiology and hygiene, with special reference to the nature and the effects of alcoholic drinks and other narcotics upon the human system.

(May 20, 1886, ch. 362, §3, 24 Stat. 69.)

### **CHAPTER 8—HOWARD UNIVERSITY** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ####

Sec.
121.Annual report of president and directors.
122.Limitation on use of appropriations.
123.Annual appropriations; inspection by Secretary of Education.
124.Transfer of Freedmen's Hospital to Howard University.
125.Employees of hospital.
126.Authorization of appropriations for construction of hospital facilities.
127.Transfer of facilities by University or cessation of operation as teaching hospital facilities; recovery of value by United States.
128.Authorization of appropriations for partial support of operation of facilities; separate account.
129.Financial policy; report to Congress.
130.Purchases through the General Services Administration.
130a.Financial and program audit by Secretary.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—ENDOWMENT ####

130aa.Definitions.
130aa–1.Program authorized.
130aa–2.Investments.
130aa–3.Withdrawals and expenditures.
130aa–4.Enforcement.
130aa–5.Authorization of appropriations.

### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ###

