
### §5354. Banks loan loss reserves ###

§5354. Banks loan loss reserves

The Federal Reserve Board shall submit to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on the issues raised by including loan loss reserves as part of banks' primary capital for regulatory purposes by March 31, 1989. Such report shall include a review of the treatment of loan loss reserves and the composition of primary capital of banks in other major industrialized countries, and shall include an analysis as to whether loan loss reserves should continue to be counted as primary capital for regulatory purposes.

(Pub. L. 100–418, title III, §3604, Aug. 23, 1988, 102 Stat. 1388.)

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Change of Name ####

Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of House of Representatives treated as referring to Committee on Banking and Financial Services of House of Representatives by section 1(a) of Pub. L. 104–14, set out as a note preceding section 21 of Title 2, The Congress. Committee on Banking and Financial Services of House of Representatives abolished and replaced by Committee on Financial Services of House of Representatives, and jurisdiction over matters relating to securities and exchanges and insurance generally transferred from Committee on Energy and Commerce of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Seventh Congress, Jan. 3, 2001.

### **CHAPTER 63—SUPPORT FOR EAST EUROPEAN DEMOCRACY (SEED)** ###

Sec.
5401.Support for East European Democracy (SEED) Program.
5402.Scope of authority.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT ####

5411.Multilateral support for structural adjustment in Poland and Hungary.
5412.Stabilization assistance for Poland.
5413.Agricultural assistance.
5414.Debt-for-equity swaps and other special techniques.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT ####

5421.Enterprise Funds for Poland and Hungary.
5422.Labor market transition in Poland and Hungary.
5423.Technical training for private sector development in Poland and Hungary.
5424.Peace Corps programs in Poland and Hungary.
5425.Use of Polish currency generated by agricultural assistance.
5426.United States policy of private financial support for Polish and Hungarian credit unions.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—EDUCATIONAL, CULTURAL, AND SCIENTIFIC ACTIVITIES ####

5441.Educational and cultural exchanges and sister institutions programs with Poland and Hungary.
5442.Poland-Hungary scholarship partnership.
5443.Science and technology exchange with Poland and Hungary.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—OTHER ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS ####

5451.Assistance in support of democratic institutions in Poland and Hungary.
5452.Environmental initiatives for Poland and Hungary.
5453.Medical supplies, hospital equipment, and medical training for Poland.
#### SUBCHAPTER V—ADDITIONAL SEED PROGRAM ACTIONS ####

5461.Policy coordination of SEED Program.
5462.SEED Information Center System.
5463.Encouraging voluntary assistance for Poland and Hungary.
5464.Economic and commercial officers at United States embassies and missions in Poland and Hungary.
#### SUBCHAPTER VI—REPORTS TO CONGRESS ####

5471.Report on initial steps taken by United States and on Poland's requirement for agricultural assistance.
5472.Report on confidence building measures by Poland and Hungary.
5473.Report on environmental problems in Poland and Hungary.
5474.Annual SEED Program report.
5475.Omitted.
5476.Notifications to Congress regarding assistance.
#### SUBCHAPTER VII—MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS ####

5491.Suspension of SEED assistance.
5492.Declaration of the Republic of Hungary.
5493.Administrative expenses of Agency for International Development.
5494.Relation of provisions of this chapter to certain provisions of appropriations acts.
5495.Certain uses of excess foreign currencies.

