
### §3631. Tribal authority ###

§3631. Tribal authority

Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to—

(1) encroach upon or diminish in any way the inherent sovereign authority of each tribal government to determine the role of the tribal justice system within the tribal government or to enact and enforce tribal laws;

(2) diminish in any way the authority of tribal governments to appoint personnel;

(3) impair the rights of each tribal government to determine the nature of its own legal system or the appointment of authority within the tribal government;

(4) alter in any way any tribal traditional dispute resolution forum;

(5) imply that any tribal justice system is an instrumentality of the United States; or

(6) diminish the trust responsibility of the United States to Indian tribal governments and tribal justice systems of such governments.

(Pub. L. 103–176, title III, §301, Dec. 3, 1993, 107 Stat. 2009.)

### **CHAPTER 38A—INDIAN TRIBAL JUSTICE TECHNICAL AND LEGAL ASSISTANCE** ###

Sec.
3651.Findings.
3652.Purposes.
3653.Definitions.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE, CIVIL AND CRIMINAL LEGAL ASSISTANCE GRANTS ####

3661.Tribal justice training and technical assistance grants.
3662.Tribal civil legal assistance grants.
3663.Tribal criminal assistance grants.
3664.No offset.
3665.Tribal authority.
3665a.Office of Tribal Justice.
3666.Authorization of appropriations.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—INDIAN TRIBAL COURTS ####

3681.Grants.
3682.Assistant probation officers.

