
### §300321. World Heritage Convention ###

§300321. World Heritage Convention

In this division, the term "World Heritage Convention" means the Convention concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage, done at Paris November 23, 1972 (27 UST 37).

(Pub. L. 113–287, §3, Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3191.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 300321 | no source. ||

The words "the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands . . . and, upon termination of the Trusteeship Agreement for the Trust Territories of the Pacific Islands" are omitted as obsolete. See note at 48 U.S.C. prec. 1681. For continued application of certain laws of the United States in certain cases, see the Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union with the United States of America (48 U.S.C. 1801 note), the Compact of Free Association between the Government of the United States of America and the Governments of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia (48 U.S.C. 1901 note), and the Compact of Free Association between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Palau (48 U.S.C. 1931 note).

### Subdivision 2—Historic Preservation Program ###

### **CHAPTER 3021—NATIONAL REGISTER OF HISTORIC PLACES** ###

Sec.
302101.Maintenance by Secretary.
302102.Inclusion of properties on National Register.
302103.Criteria and regulations relating to National Register, National Historic Landmarks, and World Heritage List.
302104.Nominations for inclusion on National Register.
302105.Owner participation in nomination process.
302106.Retention of name.
302107.Regulations.
302108.Review of threats to historic property.

