
### §8717. Study and report by the Department of Commerce ###

§8717. Study and report by the Department of Commerce

Not later than 3 years after October 5, 2018, the Secretary shall prepare a study and submit to Congress a report examining the appropriateness and effectiveness of applying the commodity check-off program model (such as those programs established under the Commodity Promotion, Research, and Information Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 7411 et seq.)) to a nonagricultural industry, taking into account the program established by this chapter and any other check-off program involving a nonagricultural industry.

(Pub. L. 115–254, div. E, §1318, Oct. 5, 2018, 132 Stat. 3485.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

The Commodity Promotion, Research, and Information Act of 1996, referred to in text, is subtitle B of title V of Pub. L. 104–127, Apr. 4, 1996, 110 Stat. 1032, which is classified generally to subchapter II (§7411 et seq.) of chapter 101 of Title 7, Agriculture. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 7401 of Title 7 and Tables.

### **CHAPTER 114—NATIONAL QUANTUM INITIATIVE** ###

Sec.
8801.Definitions.
8802.Purposes.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—NATIONAL QUANTUM INITIATIVE ####

8811.National Quantum Initiative Program.
8812.National Quantum Coordination Office.
8813.Subcommittee on Quantum Information Science.
8814.National Quantum Initiative Advisory Committee.
8814a.Subcommittee on the Economic and Security Implications of Quantum Information Science.
8815.Sunset.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STANDARDS AND TECHNOLOGY QUANTUM ACTIVITIES ####

8831.National Institute of Standards and Technology Activities and Quantum Consortium.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION QUANTUM ACTIVITIES ####

8841.Quantum information science research and education program.
8842.Multidisciplinary centers for quantum research and education.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY QUANTUM ACTIVITIES ####

8851.Quantum information science research program.
8852.National Quantum Information Science Research Centers.
8853.Department of Energy quantum network infrastructure research and development program.
8854.Department of Energy Quantum User Expansion for Science and Technology program.

