
### §2182. Multirater assessment of certain personnel ###

§2182. Multirater assessment of certain personnel

(a) Multirater Assessment of Certain Personnel.—

(1) In general.—Commencing not later than one year after the date of the enactment of the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2016, the Commandant shall develop and implement a plan to conduct every two years a multirater assessment for each of the following:

(A) Each flag officer of the Coast Guard.

(B) Each member of the Senior Executive Service of the Coast Guard.

(C) Each officer of the Coast Guard nominated for promotion to the grade of flag officer.

(2) Officers.—Each officer of the Coast Guard shall undergo a multirater assessment before promotion to—

(A) the grade of O–4;

(B) the grade of O–5; and

(C) the grade of O–6.

(3) Enlisted members.—Each enlisted member of the Coast Guard shall undergo a multirater assessment before advancement to—

(A) the grade of E–7;

(B) the grade of E–8;

(C) the grade of E–⁠9; and

(D) the grade of E–10.

(4) Selection.—An individual assessed shall not be permitted to select the peers and subordinates who provide opinions for the multirater assessment of such individual.

(5) Post-assessment elements.—

(A) In general.—Following an assessment of an individual pursuant to paragraphs (1) through (3), the individual shall be provided appropriate post-assessment counseling and leadership coaching.

(B) Availability of results.—The supervisor of the individual assessed shall be provided with the results of the multirater assessment.

(b) Multirater Assessment Defined.—In this section, the term "multirater assessment" means a review that seeks opinion from members senior to the reviewee and the peers and subordinates of the reviewee.

(Added Pub. L. 114–120, title II, §214(a)(1), Feb. 8, 2016, 130 Stat. 43, §429; amended Pub. L. 114–328, div. C, title XXXV, §3503(a), Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2775; Pub. L. 115–232, div. C, title XXXV, §3531(c)(12), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 2320; renumbered §2182, Pub. L. 115–282, title I, §112(b), Dec. 4, 2018, 132 Stat. 4216; Pub. L. 117–263, div. K, title CXII, §11244(a), Dec. 23, 2022, 136 Stat. 4042.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

The date of the enactment of the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2016, referred to in subsec. (a)(1), is the date of enactment of Pub. L. 114–120, which was approved Feb. 8, 2016.

#### Amendments ####

**2022**—Subsec. (a)(2) to (5). Pub. L. 117–263 added pars. (2) to (5) and struck out former par. (2). Prior to amendment, text of par. (2) read as follows: "Following an assessment of an individual pursuant to paragraph (1), the individual shall be provided appropriate post-assessment counseling and leadership coaching."

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–282 renumbered section 429 of this title as this section.

Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 115–232 substituted "Commandant" for "Commandant of the Coast Guard" in introductory provisions.

**2016**—Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 114–328 substituted "Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2016" for "Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2015".

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date of 2016 Amendment ####

Amendment by Pub. L. 114–328 effective as if included in the enactment of Pub. L. 114–120, see section 3503(e) of Pub. L. 114–328, set out as a note under section 315 of this title.

### **CHAPTER 23—PERSONNEL; ENLISTED** ###

Sec.
2301.Recruiting campaigns.
2302.Enlistments; term, grade.
2303.Promotion.
2304.Compulsory retirement at age of sixty-two.
2305.Voluntary retirement after thirty years' service.
2306.Voluntary retirement after twenty years' service.
2307.Retirement of enlisted members: increase in retired pay.
2308.Recall to active duty during war or national emergency.
2309.Recall to active duty with consent of member.
2310.Relief of retired enlisted member promoted while on active duty.
2311.Retirement in cases where higher grade or rating has been held.
2312.Extension of enlistments.
2313.Retention beyond term of enlistment in case of disability.
2314.Detention beyond term of enlistment.
2315.Inclusion of certain conditions in enlistment contract.
2316.Discharge within three months before expiration of enlistment.
2317.Aviation cadets; procurement; transfer.
2318.Aviation cadets; benefits.
2319.Critical skill training bonus.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Prior Provisions ####

A prior analysis for chapter 23 "COAST GUARD AUXILIARY" consisted of items 821 "Administration of the Coast Guard Auxiliary", 822 "Purpose of the Coast Guard Auxiliary", 823 "Eligibility; enrollments", 823a "Members of the Auxiliary; status", 824 "Disenrollment", 825 "Membership in other organizations", 826 "Use of member's facilities", 827 "Vessel deemed public vessel", 828 "Aircraft deemed public aircraft", 829 "Radio station deemed government station", 830 "Availability of appropriations", 831 "Assignment and performance of duties", and 832 "Injury or death in line of duty", prior to repeal by Pub. L. 115–282, title I, §113(a), Dec. 4, 2018, 132 Stat. 4221.

#### Amendments ####

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–282, title I, §113(a), Dec. 4, 2018, 132 Stat. 4221, inserted chapter 23 designation and heading and added items 2301 to 2319.

