
### §3311. Required review of regulations ###

§3311. Required review of regulations

#### (a) In general ####

Not less frequently than once every 10 years, the Council and each appropriate Federal banking agency represented on the Council shall conduct a review of all regulations prescribed by the Council or by any such appropriate Federal banking agency, respectively, in order to identify outdated or otherwise unnecessary regulatory requirements imposed on insured depository institutions.

#### (b) Process ####

In conducting the review under subsection (a), the Council or the appropriate Federal banking agency shall—

(1) categorize the regulations described in subsection (a) by type (such as consumer regulations, safety and soundness regulations, or such other designations as determined by the Council, or the appropriate Federal banking agency); and

(2) at regular intervals, provide notice and solicit public comment on a particular category or categories of regulations, requesting commentators to identify areas of the regulations that are outdated, unnecessary, or unduly burdensome.

#### (c) Complete review ####

The Council or the appropriate Federal banking agency shall ensure that the notice and comment period described in subsection (b)(2) is conducted with respect to all regulations described in subsection (a) not less frequently than once every 10 years.

#### (d) Regulatory response ####

The Council or the appropriate Federal banking agency shall—

(1) publish in the Federal Register a summary of the comments received under this section, identifying significant issues raised and providing comment on such issues; and

(2) eliminate unnecessary regulations to the extent that such action is appropriate.

#### (e) Report to Congress ####

Not later than 30 days after carrying out subsection (d)(1), the Council shall submit to the Congress a report, which shall include—

(1) a summary of any significant issues raised by public comments received by the Council and the appropriate Federal banking agencies under this section and the relative merits of such issues; and

(2) an analysis of whether the appropriate Federal banking agency involved is able to address the regulatory burdens associated with such issues by regulation, or whether such burdens must be addressed by legislative action.

(Pub. L. 104–208, div. A, title II, §2222, Sept. 30, 1996, 110 Stat. 3009–414.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

Section enacted as part of the Economic Growth and Regulatory Paperwork Reduction Act of 1996, and also as part of the Omnibus Consolidated Appropriations Act, 1997, and not as part of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council Act of 1978 which comprises this chapter.

### **CHAPTER 34A—APPRAISAL SUBCOMMITTEE OF FEDERAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS EXAMINATION COUNCIL** ###

Sec.
3331.Purpose.
3332.Functions of Appraisal Subcommittee.
3333.Chairperson of Appraisal Subcommittee; term of Chairperson; meetings.
3334.Officers and staff.
3335.Powers of Appraisal Subcommittee.
3336.Procedures for establishing appraisal standards and requiring use of certified and licensed appraisers.
3337.Startup funding.
3338.Roster of State certified or licensed appraisers; authority to collect and transmit fees.
3339.Functions of Federal financial institutions regulatory agencies relating to appraisal standards.
3340.Time for proposal and adoption of standards.
3341.Functions of Federal financial institutions regulatory agencies relating to appraiser qualifications.
3342.Transactions requiring services of State certified appraiser.
3343.Transactions requiring services of State licensed appraiser.
3344.Time for proposal and adoption of rules.
3345.Certification and licensing requirements.
3346.Establishment of State appraiser certifying and licensing agencies.
3347.Monitoring of State appraiser certifying and licensing agencies.
3348.Recognition of State certified and licensed appraisers for purposes of this chapter.
3349.Violations in obtaining and performing appraisals in federally related transactions.
3350.Definitions.
3351.Miscellaneous provisions.
3352.Emergency exceptions for disaster areas.
3353.Appraisal management company minimum requirements.
3354.Automated valuation models used to estimate collateral value for mortgage lending purposes.
3355.Broker price opinions.
3356.Exemption from appraisals of real estate located in rural areas.

