
### §12513. Study of program effectiveness ###

§12513. Study of program effectiveness

#### (a) In general ####

Not later than 12 months after April 21, 2009, the Comptroller General of the United States shall develop performance measures for each program receiving Federal assistance under the national service laws.

#### (b) Contents ####

The performance measures developed under subsection (a) shall—

(1) to the maximum extent practicable draw on research-based, quantitative data;

(2) take into account program purpose and program design;

(3) include criteria to evaluate the cost effectiveness of programs receiving assistance under the national service laws;

(4) include criteria to evaluate the administration and management of programs receiving Federal assistance under the national service laws; and

(5) include criteria to evaluate oversight and accountability of recipients of assistance through such programs under the national service laws.

#### (c) Report ####

Not later than 2 years after the development of the performance measures under subsection (a), and every 5 years thereafter, the Comptroller General of the United States shall prepare and submit to the authorizing committees and the Corporation's Board of Directors a report containing an assessment of each such program with respect to the performance measures developed under subsection (a).

#### (d) Definitions ####

In this section:

#### (1) In general ####

The terms "authorizing committees", "Corporation", and "national service laws" have the meanings given the terms in section 12511 of this title.

#### (2) Program ####

The term "program" means an entire program carried out by the Corporation under the national service laws, such as the entire AmeriCorps program carried out under subtitle C.[1](#12513_1_target)

(Pub. L. 111–13, title I, §1712, Apr. 21, 2009, 123 Stat. 1551.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

Subtitle C, referred to in subsec. (d)(2), probably means subtitle C (§121 et seq.) of title I of Pub. L. 101–610, which is classified generally to division C (§12571 et seq.) of this subchapter. For complete classification of subtitle C to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification ####

Section was enacted as part of the Serve America Act, and not as part of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date ####

Section effective Oct. 1, 2009, see section 6101(a) of Pub. L. 111–13, set out as an Effective Date of 2009 Amendment note under section 4950 of this title.

[1 See References in Text note below.](#12513_1)

### Division B—School-Based and Community-Based Service-Learning Programs ###

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Prior Provisions ####

This division is comprised of subtitle B, §§111–120, of title I of Pub. L. 101–610. A prior part B (§12521 et seq.), comprised of subtitle B, §§111–118, of title I of Pub. L. 101–610, related to programs for students and out-of-school youth, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 103–82, title I, §103(a)(2), (b), Sept. 21, 1993, 107 Stat. 825, 837.

### Part I—Programs for Elementary and Secondary School Students ###

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

Part I of subtitle B of title I of the National and Community Service Act of 1990, comprising this part, was originally added to Pub. L. 101–610, title I, subtitle B, by Pub. L. 103–82, title I, §103(a)(2), Sept. 21, 1993, 107 Stat. 825, and amended by Pub. L. 103–382, Oct. 20, 1994, 108 Stat. 3518. Such part is shown herein, however, as having been added by Pub. L. 111–13, title I, §1201, Apr. 21, 2009, 123 Stat. 1467, without reference to such intervening amendments because of the extensive revision of the part's provisions by Pub. L. 111–13.

