
### §2000h–6. Separability ###

§2000h–6. Separability

If any provision of this Act or the application thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the remainder of the Act and the application of the provision to other persons not similarly situated or to other circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

(Pub. L. 88–352, title XI, §1106, July 2, 1964, 78 Stat. 268.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

This Act and the Act, referred to in text, is Pub. L. 88–352, July 2, 1964, 78 Stat. 241, known as the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which is classified principally to subchapters II to IX of this chapter (§2000a et seq.). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 2000a of this title and Tables.

### **CHAPTER 21A—PRIVACY PROTECTION** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—FIRST AMENDMENT PRIVACY PROTECTION ####

#### Part A—Unlawful Acts ####

Sec.
2000aa.Searches and seizures by government officers and employees in connection with investigation or prosecution of criminal offenses.

#### Part B—Remedies, Exceptions, and Definitions ####

2000aa–5.Border and customs searches.
2000aa–6.Civil actions by aggrieved persons.
2000aa–7.Definitions.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—ATTORNEY GENERAL GUIDELINES ####

2000aa–11.Guidelines for Federal officers and employees.
2000aa–12.Binding nature of guidelines; disciplinary actions for violations; legal proceedings for non-compliance prohibited.

### SUBCHAPTER I—FIRST AMENDMENT PRIVACY PROTECTION ###

### Part A—Unlawful Acts ###

