
### §6555. Definitions ###

§6555. Definitions

In this chapter:

#### (1) Commission ####

The term "Commission" means the Federal Trade Commission.

#### (2) Internet ####

The term "Internet" means collectively the myriad of computer and telecommunications facilities, including equipment and operating software, which comprise the interconnected world-wide network of networks that employ the Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol, or any predecessor successor [1](#6555_1_target) protocols to such protocol, to communicate information of all kinds by wire or radio.

(Pub. L. 110–385, title II, §216, Oct. 10, 2008, 122 Stat. 4104.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original "this title", meaning title II of Pub. L. 110–385, Oct. 10, 2008, 122 Stat. 4102, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of title II to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 6551 of this title and Tables.

[1 So in original. Probably should be preceded by "or".](#6555_1)

### **CHAPTER 92—YEAR 2000 COMPUTER DATE CHANGE** ###

Sec.
6601.Findings and purposes.
6602.Definitions.
6603.Application of chapter.
6604.Punitive damages limitations.
6605.Proportionate liability.
6606.Prelitigation notice.
6607.Pleading requirements.
6608.Duty to mitigate.
6609.Application of existing impossibility or commercial impracticability doctrines.
6610.Damages limitation by contract.
6611.Damages in tort claims.
6612.State of mind; bystander liability; control.
6613.Appointment of special masters or magistrate judges for Y2K actions.
6614.Y2K actions as class actions.
6615.Applicability of State law.
6616.Admissible evidence ultimate issue in State courts.
6617.Suspension of penalties for certain year 2000 failures by small business concerns.

