
### §1389. Clean watersheds needs survey ###

§1389. Clean watersheds needs survey

#### (a) Requirement ####

Not later than 2 years after November 15, 2021, and not less frequently than once every 4 years thereafter, the Administrator shall—

(1) conduct and complete an assessment of capital improvement needs for all projects that are eligible under section 1383(c) of this title for assistance from State water pollution control revolving funds; and

(2) submit to Congress a report describing the results of the assessment completed under paragraph (1).

#### (b) Authorization of appropriations ####

There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out the initial needs survey under subsection (a) $5,000,000, to remain available until expended.

(June 30, 1948, ch. 758, title VI, §609, as added Pub. L. 117–58, div. E, title II, §50220, Nov. 15, 2021, 135 Stat. 1180.)

### **CHAPTER 27—OCEAN DUMPING** ###

Sec.
1401.Congressional finding, policy, and declaration of purpose.
1402.Definitions.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—REGULATION ####

1411.Prohibited acts.
1412.Dumping permit program.
1412a.Emergency dumping of industrial waste.
1413.Dumping permit program for dredged material.
1414.Permit conditions.
1414a.Special provisions regarding certain dumping sites.
1414b.Ocean dumping of sewage sludge and industrial waste.
1414c.Prohibition on disposal of sewage sludge at landfills on Staten Island.
1415.Penalties.
1416.Relationship to other laws.
1417.Enforcement.
1418.Regulations.
1419.International cooperation.
1420.Authorization of appropriations.
1421.Omitted.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—RESEARCH ####

1441.Monitoring and research program.
1442.Research program respecting possible long-range effects of pollution, overfishing, and man-induced changes of ocean ecosystems.
1443.Research program respecting ocean dumping and other methods of waste disposal.
1444.Annual reports.
1445.Authorization of appropriations.

