
### §158. Mineral resources on withdrawn lands; disposition and exploration ###

§158. Mineral resources on withdrawn lands; disposition and exploration

All withdrawals or reservations of public lands for the use of any agency of the Department of Defense, except lands withdrawn or reserved specifically as naval petroleum, naval oil shale, or naval coal reserves, heretofore or hereafter made by the United States, shall be deemed to be subject to the condition that all minerals, including oil and gas, in the lands so withdrawn or reserved are under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior and there shall be no disposition of, or exploration for, any minerals in such lands except under the applicable public land mining and mineral leasing laws: *Provided*, That no disposition of, or exploration for, any minerals in such lands shall be made where the Secretary of Defense, after consultation with the Secretary of the Interior, determines that such disposition or exploration is inconsistent with the military use of the lands so withdrawn or reserved.

(Pub. L. 85–337, §6, Feb. 28, 1958, 72 Stat. 30.)

### **CHAPTER 7—HOMESTEADS** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ####

Sec.
161 to 176. Repealed or Transferred.
177.Patents for lands in New Mexico held under color of title.
178.Patents for lands in New Mexico; lands contiguous to Spanish or Mexican land grants.
179, 180.Repealed.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—RIGHT OF PARTICULAR PERSONS TO MAKE ENTRY ####

181 to 191. Repealed.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—LANDS SUBJECT TO ENTRY ####

201 to 208. Repealed.
209.Extension of public-land laws to certain lands in Oklahoma.
210.Recognition of equitable claims on certain lands in Oklahoma; validation of homestead entries.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—LIMITATION AS TO AMOUNT AND ADDITIONAL AND ENLARGED ENTRIES ####

211 to 224. Repealed.
#### SUBCHAPTER V—LEAVES OF ABSENCE AND EXCUSES FOR NONRESIDENCE OR NONCULTIVATION ####

231 to 243a. Repealed.
#### SUBCHAPTER VI—FINAL PROOF GENERALLY ####

251 to 256b. Repealed.
#### SUBCHAPTER VII—PAYMENTS AND REFUNDS ####

261 to 263. Repealed.
#### SUBCHAPTER VIII—ALASKA HOMESTEADS ####

270 to 270–11. Repealed.
270–12.Disposal by United States of coal, oil, or gas deposits reserved to United States; entry, reentry, etc., on lands for prospecting, mining, and removal.
270–13 to 270–17. Repealed.
#### SUBCHAPTER IX—SOLDIERS' AND SAILORS' HOMESTEAD ####

271 to 284. Repealed.
#### SUBCHAPTER X—STOCK-RAISING HOMESTEAD ####

291 to 298. Repealed.
299.Reservation of coal and mineral rights.
300.Repealed.
301.Rules and regulations.
302.Repealed.

### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ###

