
### §1356c. Wind lease sales for areas of the outer Continental Shelf offshore of territories of the United States ###

§1356c. Wind lease sales for areas of the outer Continental Shelf offshore of territories of the United States

#### (a) [1](#1356c_1_target) Wind lease sales off coasts of territories of the United States ####

#### (1) Call for information and nominations ####

#### (A) In general ####

The Secretary shall issue calls for information and nominations for proposed wind lease sales for areas of the outer Continental Shelf described in paragraph (2) that are determined to be feasible.

#### (B) Initial call ####

Not later than September 30, 2025, the Secretary shall issue an initial call for information and nominations under this paragraph.

#### (2) Conditional wind lease sales ####

The Secretary may conduct wind lease sales in each area within the exclusive economic zone of the United States adjacent to the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands that meets each of the following criteria:

(A) The Secretary has concluded that a wind lease sale in the area is feasible.

(B) The Secretary has determined that there is sufficient interest in leasing the area.

(C) The Secretary has consulted with the Governor of the territory regarding the suitability of the area for wind energy development.

(Aug. 7, 1953, ch. 345, §33, as added Pub. L. 117–169, title V, §50251(b)(2), Aug. 16, 2022, 136 Stat. 2055.)

[1 So in original. There is no subsec. (b).](#1356c_1)

### **CHAPTER 30—ADMINISTRATION OF PUBLIC LANDS** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ####

Sec.
1361 to 1364. Repealed.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—SERVICE CHARGES AND EXCESS PAYMENTS ####

1371 to 1374. Repealed.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—DEPOSITS AND FORFEITURES ####

1381 to 1383. Repealed.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—PUBLIC LAND LAW REVIEW COMMISSION ####

1391 to 1400. Omitted.
#### SUBCHAPTER V—CLASSIFICATION OF LANDS TO PROVIDE FOR DISPOSAL OR INTERIM MANAGEMENT ####

1411 to 1418. Omitted.
#### SUBCHAPTER VI—SALE OF PUBLIC LAND ####

1421 to 1427. Omitted.
#### SUBCHAPTER VII—SALE OF PUBLIC LANDS SUBJECT TO UNINTENTIONAL TRESPASS ####

1431 to 1435. Omitted.
#### SUBCHAPTER VIII—PUBLIC AIRPORTS ####

1441.Lease of contiguous public lands for public airports; authority of Secretary of the Interior.
1442.Terms of lease; public lands for public airports.
1443.Cancellation of leases of public lands used as airports made under law in force May 24, 1928.

### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ###

