
### §1467. Investment of assets of Fund ###

§1467. Investment of assets of Fund

The Secretary of the Treasury shall invest such portion of the Fund as is not in the judgment of the Secretary of Defense required to meet current withdrawals. Such investments shall be in public debt securities with maturities suitable to the needs of the Fund, as determined by the Secretary of Defense, and bearing interest at rates determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, taking into consideration current market yields on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States of comparable maturities. The income on such investments shall be credited to and form a part of the Fund.

(Added Pub. L. 98–94, title IX, §925(a)(1), Sept. 24, 1983, 97 Stat. 648.)

### **CHAPTER 75—DECEASED PERSONNEL** ###

SubchapterSec.
I.Death Investigations1471
II.Death Benefits1475

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**1999**—Pub. L. 106–65, div. A, title VII, §721(a), Oct. 5, 1999, 113 Stat. 692, substituted "DECEASED PERSONNEL" for "DEATH BENEFITS" as chapter heading and added subchapter analysis.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Notification to Next of Kin Upon the Death of a Member of the Armed Forces: Study; Update; Training; Report ####

Pub. L. 117–263, div. A, title V, §527, Dec. 23, 2022, 136 Stat. 2572, provided that:

"(a) Study.—Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 23, 2022], the Secretary of Defense shall conduct a study on the notification processes of the next of kin upon the death of a member of the Armed Forces. In conducting the study, the Secretary shall identify the following elements:

"(1) The time it takes for such notification to occur after such death, recovery of remains, and identification of remains. Such time shall be determined through an analysis of data regarding cases involving such notifications.

"(2) The effect of media (including social media) and other forms of communication on such processes.

"(3) Means by which the Secretary may improve such processes to reduce the time described in paragraph (1).

"(4) Any legislative recommendations of the Secretary to improve such processes to reduce the time described in paragraph (1).

"(b) Update.—Upon completion of the study under subsection (a), the Secretary shall review and update training and education materials regarding such processes, implementing means described in subsection (a)(3).

"(c) Operational Training.—The Secretary of the military department concerned shall include a training exercise, using materials updated (including lessons learned) under subsection (b), regarding a death described in this section in each major exercise conducted by such Secretary or the Secretary of Defense.

"(d) Report.—Not later one year after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 23, 2022], the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report containing—

"(1) the results of the study;

"(2) a description of the update under subsection (b); and

"(3) lessons learned, as described in subsection (c)."

### SUBCHAPTER I—DEATH INVESTIGATIONS ###

Sec.
1471.Forensic pathology investigations.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**1999**—Pub. L. 106–65, div. A, title VII, §721(a), Oct. 5, 1999, 113 Stat. 692, added subchapter I heading and item 1471.

