
### §7718. Authorization of appropriations ###

§7718. Authorization of appropriations

#### (a) Authorization of appropriations ####

There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this chapter such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2004 and 2005.

#### (b) Allocation of funds ####

#### (1) In general ####

The Corporation may allocate or transfer to any agency of the United States Government any of the funds available for carrying out this chapter. Such funds shall be available for obligation and expenditure for the purposes for which the funds were authorized, in accordance with authority granted in this chapter or under authority governing the activities of the United States Government agency to which such funds are allocated or transferred.

#### (2) Notification ####

The Corporation shall notify the appropriate congressional committees not less than 15 days prior to an allocation or transfer of funds pursuant to paragraph (1).

(Pub. L. 108–199, div. D, title VI, §619, Jan. 23, 2004, 118 Stat. 225.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

This chapter, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (b)(1), was in the original "this title", meaning title VI of Pub. L. 108–199, div. D, Jan. 23, 2004, 118 Stat. 211, which is classified generally to this chapter. For complete classification of this title to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 7701 of this title and Tables.

### **CHAPTER 85—NORTH KOREAN HUMAN RIGHTS** ###

Sec.
7801.Findings.
7802.Purposes.
7803.Definitions.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—PROMOTING THE HUMAN RIGHTS OF NORTH KOREANS ####

7811.Sense of Congress regarding negotiations with North Korea.
7812.Support for human rights and democracy programs.
7813.Radio broadcasting to North Korea.
7814.Actions to promote freedom of information.
7815.United Nations Commission on Human Rights.
7816.Establishment of regional framework.
7817.Special Envoy on North Korean human rights issues.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—ASSISTING NORTH KOREANS IN NEED ####

7831.Report on United States humanitarian assistance.
7832.Assistance provided inside North Korea.
7833.Assistance provided outside of North Korea.
7834.Briefings on the welfare of North Korean children.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—PROTECTING NORTH KOREAN REFUGEES ####

7841.United States policy toward refugees and defectors.
7842.Eligibility for refugee or asylum consideration.
7843.Facilitating submission of applications for admission as a refugee.
7844.United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
7845.Annual reports.
7846.Sense of Congress on humanitarian coordination related to the Korean Peninsula.

