
### §564. Administration of sexual assault forensic examination kits ###

§564. Administration of sexual assault forensic examination kits

(a) Sexual Assault Forensic Exam Procedure.—

(1) In general.—Before embarking on any prescheduled voyage, a Coast Guard vessel shall have in place a written operating procedure that ensures that an embarked victim of sexual assault shall have access to a sexual assault forensic examination—

(A) as soon as possible after the victim requests an examination; and

(B) that is treated with the same level of urgency as emergency medical care.

(2) Requirements.—The written operating procedure required by paragraph (1),[1](#564_1_target) shall, at a minimum, account for—

(A) the health, safety, and privacy of a victim of sexual assault;

(B) the proximity of ashore or afloat medical facilities, including coordination as necessary with the Department of Defense, including other military departments (as defined in section 101 of title 10);

(C) the availability of aeromedical evacuation;

(D) the operational capabilities of the vessel concerned;

(E) the qualifications of medical personnel onboard;

(F) coordination with law enforcement and the preservation of evidence;

(G) the means of accessing a sexual assault forensic examination and medical care with a restricted report of sexual assault;

(H) the availability of nonprescription pregnancy prophylactics; and

(I) other unique military considerations.

(Added Pub. L. 117–263, div. K, title CXII, §11272(a), Dec. 23, 2022, 136 Stat. 4066.)

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Annual Report ####

Pub. L. 117–263, div. K, title CXII, §11272(c)(5), Dec. 23, 2022, 136 Stat. 4067, provided that: "The Commandant [of the Coast Guard] shall submit to the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee of the House and the Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee of the Senate a report containing the number of sexual assault forensic examinations that were requested by, but not administered within 3 days to, alleged victims of sexual assault when such victims were onboard a vessel."

[1 So in original. The comma probably should not appear.](#564_1)

### **CHAPTER 7—COOPERATION** ###

Sec.
701.Cooperation with other agencies, States, territories, and political subdivisions.
702.State Department.
703.Treasury Department.
704.Department of the Army and Department of the Air Force.
705.Navy Department.
706.United States Postal Service.
707.Department of Commerce.
708.Department of Health and Human Services.
709.Maritime instruction.
710.Assistance to foreign governments and maritime authorities.
711.Coast Guard officers as attachés to missions.
712.Contracts with Government-owned establishments for work and material.
713.Nonappropriated fund instrumentalities: contracts with other agencies and instrumentalities to provide or obtain goods and services.
714.Arctic maritime domain awareness.
715.Oceanographic research.
716.Arctic maritime transportation.
717.Agreements.
718.Training; emergency response providers.
719.Research projects; transactions other than contracts and grants.
720.VHF communication services.[1](#CHAPTER7_1_target)
721.Responses to safety recommendations.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Prior Provisions ####

A prior analysis for part II of this title "COAST GUARD RESERVE AND AUXILIARY" preceded prior section 701 and consisted of items for chapter 21 "Coast Guard Reserve" beginning with section 701, chapter 23 "Coast Guard Auxiliary" beginning with section 821, and chapter 25 "General Provisions for Coast Guard Reserve and Auxiliary" beginning with section 891, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 115–282, title I, §111, Dec. 4, 2018, 132 Stat. 4215.

A prior analysis for chapter 7 "COOPERATION WITH OTHER AGENCIES" consisted of items 141 "Cooperation with other agencies, States, territories, and political subdivisions", 142 "State Department", 143 "Treasury Department", 144 "Department of the Army and Department of the Air Force", 145 "Navy Department", 146 "United States Postal Service", 147 "Department of Commerce", 147a "Department of Health and Human Services", 148 "Maritime instruction", 149 "Assistance to foreign governments and maritime authorities", 150 "Coast Guard officers as attachés to missions", 151 "Contracts with Government-owned establishments for work and material", 152 "Nonappropriated fund instrumentalities: contracts with other agencies and instrumentalities to provide or obtain goods and services", 153 "Appointment of judges", and 154 "Arctic maritime domain awareness", prior to repeal by Pub. L. 115–282, title I, §106(a), Dec. 4, 2018, 132 Stat. 4202.

#### Amendments ####

**2022**—Pub. L. 117–263, div. K, title CXV, §11501(b), Dec. 23, 2022, 136 Stat. 4127, added item 721.

**2021**—Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXII [LXXXII], §8218(b), title LVXXXV [LXXXV], §8501(b)(2), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4655, 4746, added items 719 and 720.

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–282, title I, §106(a), title III, §306(b), Dec. 4, 2018, 132 Stat. 4202, 4247, inserted chapter 7 designation and heading and added items 701 to 718.

[1 So in original. Does not conform to section catchline.](#CHAPTER7_1)

