
### §2106. Relationship to other laws ###

§2106. Relationship to other laws

#### (a) Law of salvage and law of finds ####

The law of salvage and the law of finds shall not apply to abandoned shipwrecks to which section 2105 of this title applies.

#### (b) Laws of United States ####

This chapter shall not change the laws of the United States relating to shipwrecks, other than those to which this chapter applies.

#### (c) Effective date ####

This chapter shall not affect any legal proceeding brought prior to April 28, 1988.

(Pub. L. 100–298, §7, Apr. 28, 1988, 102 Stat. 434.)

### **CHAPTER 40—RECLAMATION STATES EMERGENCY DROUGHT RELIEF** ###

Sec.
2201.Definitions.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—DROUGHT PROGRAM ####

2211.Assistance during drought; water purchases.
2212.Availability of water on temporary basis.
2213.Loans.
2214.Applicable period of drought program.
2215.Assistance for drought-related planning in reclamation States.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—DROUGHT CONTINGENCY PLANNING ####

2221.Identification of opportunities for water supply conservation, augmentation and use.
2222.Drought contingency plans.
2223.Plan elements.
2224.Recommendations.
2225.Reclamation Drought Response Fund.
2226.Technical assistance and transfer of precipitation management technology.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—GENERAL AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS ####

2241.Authorization of appropriations.
2242.Authority of Secretary.
2243.Temperature control at Shasta Dam, Central Valley Project.
2244.Effect of chapter on other laws.
2245.Excess storage and carrying capacity.
2246.Report.
2247.Federal Reclamation laws.

