
### §638. Continental shelf areas ###

§638. Continental shelf areas

For purposes of applying the provisions of this chapter (including sections 861(a)(3) and 862(a)(3) in the case of the performance of personal services) with respect to mines, oil and gas wells, and other natural deposits—

(1) the term "United States" when used in a geographical sense includes the seabed and subsoil of those submarine areas which are adjacent to the territorial waters of the United States and over which the United States has exclusive rights, in accordance with international law, with respect to the exploration and exploitation of natural resources; and

(2) the terms "foreign country" and "possession of the United States" when used in a geographical sense include the seabed and subsoil of those submarine areas which are adjacent to the territorial waters of the foreign country or such possession and over which the foreign country (or the United States in case of such possession) has exclusive rights, in accordance with international law, with respect to the exploration and exploitation of natural resources, but this paragraph shall apply in the case of a foreign country only if it exercises, directly or indirectly, taxing jurisdiction with respect to such exploration or exploitation.

No foreign country shall, by reason of the application of this section, be treated as a country contiguous to the United States.

(Added Pub. L. 91–172, title V, §505(a), Dec. 30, 1969, 83 Stat. 634.)

### **Subchapter J—Estates, Trusts, Beneficiaries, and Decedents** ###

Part
I.Estates, trusts, and beneficiaries.
II.Income in respect of decedents.

### PART I—ESTATES, TRUSTS, AND BENEFICIARIES ###

Subpart
A.General rules for taxation of estates and trusts.
B.Trusts which distribute current income only.
C.Estates and trusts which may accumulate income or which distribute corpus.
D.Treatment of excess distributions by trusts.
E.Grantors and others treated as substantial owners.
F.Miscellaneous.

### Subpart A—General Rules for Taxation of Estates and Trusts ###

Sec.
641.Imposition of tax.
642.Special rules for credits and deductions.
643.Definitions applicable to subparts A, B, C, and D.
644.Taxable year of trusts.
645.Certain revocable trusts treated as part of estate.
646.Tax treatment of electing Alaska Native Settlement Trusts.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2001**—Pub. L. 107–16, title VI, §671(c)(1), June 7, 2001, 115 Stat. 147, added item 646.

**1998**—Pub. L. 105–206, title VI, §6013(a)(2), July 22, 1998, 112 Stat. 819, renumbered item 646 as 645.

**1997**—Pub. L. 105–34, title V, §507(b)(3), title XIII, §1305(c), Aug. 5, 1997, 111 Stat. 857, 1041, added items 644 and 646 and struck out former items 644 "Special rule for gain on property transferred to trust at less than fair market value" and 645 "Taxable year of trusts".

**1986**—Pub. L. 99–514, title XIV, §1403(b), Oct. 22, 1986, 100 Stat. 2713, added item 645.

**1976**—Pub. L. 94–455, title VII, §701(g)(2), Oct. 4, 1976, 90 Stat. 1580, added item 644.

