
### §2122. Acceptance of gifts on behalf of the House of Representatives ###

§2122. Acceptance of gifts on behalf of the House of Representatives

The Board is authorized to accept, on behalf of the House of Representatives, gifts of works of fine art, historical objects, and similar property, including transfers from the United States Capitol Preservation Commission under section 2082 of this title, for display or other use in the House of Representatives wing of the Capitol, the House of Representatives Office Buildings, or any other location under the control of the House of Representatives.

(Pub. L. 100–696, title X, §1002, Nov. 18, 1988, 102 Stat. 4612.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

Section was classified to section 188c–1 of former Title 40, prior to the enactment of Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works, by Pub. L. 107–217, §1, Aug. 21, 2002, 116 Stat. 1062.

### Part D—Miscellaneous ###

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Plaque To Honor Members of Law Enforcement Who Responded on January 6, 2021 ####

Pub. L. 117–103, div. I, title II, §214, Mar. 15, 2022, 136 Stat. 527, provided that:

"(a) Sense of Congress.—It is the sense of Congress that the United States owes its deepest gratitude to those officers of the United States Capitol Police and the Metropolitan Police Department of the District of Columbia, as well as officers from other Federal, State, and local law enforcement agencies and protective entities, who valiantly protected the United States Capitol, Members of Congress, and staff on January 6, 2021.

"(b) Plaque.—Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act [Mar. 15, 2022], the Architect of the Capitol shall obtain an honorific plaque listing the names of all of the officers of the United States Capitol Police, the Metropolitan Police Department of the District of Columbia, and other Federal, State, and local law enforcement agencies and protective entities who responded to the violence that occurred at the United States Capitol on January 6, 2021, and shall place the plaque at a permanent location on the western front of the United States Capitol.

"(c) Compilation and Confirmation of List of Names.—

"(1) List of names for plaque.—The Chairs and Ranking Members of the Committee on House Administration of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate, and the Subcommittees on the Legislative Branch of the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate shall jointly compile and confirm a list of the officers of the United States Capitol Police, the Metropolitan Police Department of the District of Columbia, and other Federal, State, and local law enforcement agencies and protective entities whose names should be included on the plaque under this section.

"(2) Inclusion of names of specific officers.—In compiling the list under paragraph (1), the Chairs and Ranking Members of the Committees and Subcommittees described in such paragraph shall include the names of the specific individuals described in paragraph (2) of section 215(c) of H. R. 4346, One Hundred Seventeenth Congress, as passed by the House of Representatives on July 28, 2021."

