
### §3550. Audit of Department financial statements ###

§3550. Audit of Department financial statements

For this fiscal year and each fiscal year thereafter, subject to appropriations for that purpose, the Office of Inspector General shall procure and rely upon the services of an independent external auditor(s) to audit the financial statements of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, including the consolidated financial statement and the financial statements of the Federal Housing Administration and the Government National Mortgage Association.

(Pub. L. 116–260, div. L, title II, Dec. 27, 2020, 134 Stat. 1891.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

This fiscal year, referred to in text, is fiscal year 2021.

#### Codification ####

Section was enacted as part of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Act, 2021, and also as part of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2021, and not as part of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Act which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Similar Provisions ####

Provisions similar to this section were contained in the following prior appropriation act:

Pub. L. 116–94, div. H, title II, Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 2999.

### **CHAPTER 45—FAIR HOUSING** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERALLY ####

Sec.
3601.Declaration of policy.
3602.Definitions.
3603.Effective dates of certain prohibitions.
3604.Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing and other prohibited practices.
3605.Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions.
3606.Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services.
3607.Religious organization or private club exemption.
3608.Administration.
3608a.Collection of certain data.
3609.Education and conciliation; conferences and consultations; reports.
3610.Administrative enforcement; preliminary matters.
3611.Subpoenas; giving of evidence.
3612.Enforcement by Secretary.
3613.Enforcement by private persons.
3614.Enforcement by Attorney General.
3614–1.Incentives for self-testing and self-correction.
3614a.Rules to implement subchapter.
3615.Effect on State laws.
3616.Cooperation with State and local agencies administering fair housing laws; utilization of services and personnel; reimbursement; written agreements; publication in Federal Register.
3616a.Fair housing initiatives program.
3617.Interference, coercion, or intimidation.
3618.Authorization of appropriations.
3619.Separability.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION ####

3631.Violations; penalties.

### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERALLY ###

