
### §3583. Application to access data assets for developing evidence ###

§3583. Application to access data assets for developing evidence

(a) Standard Application Process.—The Director shall establish a process through which agencies, the Congressional Budget Office, State, local, and Tribal governments, researchers, and other individuals, as appropriate, may apply to access the data assets accessed or acquired under this subchapter by a statistical agency or unit for purposes of developing evidence. The process shall include the following:

(1) Sufficient detail to ensure that each statistical agency or unit establishes an identical process.

(2) A common application form.

(3) Criteria for statistical agencies and units to determine whether to grant an applicant access to a data asset.

(4) Timeframes for prompt determinations by each statistical agency or unit.

(5) An appeals process for adverse decisions and noncompliance with the process established under this subsection.

(6) Standards for transparency, including requirements to make the following information publicly available:

(A) Each application received.

(B) The status of each application.

(C) The determination made for each application.

(D) Any other information, as appropriate, to ensure full transparency of the process established under this subsection.

(b) Consultation.—In establishing the process required under subsection (a), the Director shall consult with stakeholders, including the public, agencies, State and local governments, and representatives of non-governmental researchers.

(c) Implementation.—The head of each statistical agency or unit shall implement the process established under subsection (a).

(Added Pub. L. 115–435, title III, §303(a), Jan. 14, 2019, 132 Stat. 5555.)

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date ####

Section effective 180 days after Jan. 14, 2019, see section 403 of Pub. L. 115–435, set out as an Effective Date of 2019 Amendment note under section 306 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

### **CHAPTER 36—MANAGEMENT AND PROMOTION OF ELECTRONIC GOVERNMENT SERVICES** ###

Sec.
3601.Definitions.
3602.Office of Electronic Government.
3603.Chief Information Officers Council.
3604.E-Government Fund.
3605.Program to encourage innovative solutions to enhance electronic Government services and processes.
3606.E-Government report.
3607.Definitions.
3608.Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program.
3609.Roles and responsibilities of the General Services Administration.
3610.FedRAMP Board.
3611.Independent assessment.
3612.Declaration of foreign interests.
3613.Roles and responsibilities of agencies.
3614.Roles and responsibilities of the Office of Management and Budget.
3615.Reports to Congress; GAO report.
3616.Federal Secure Cloud Advisory Committee.

#### Amendment of Analysis ####

Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LIX, §5921(d)(2), Dec. 23, 2022, 136 Stat. 3458, provided that, effective on the date that is 5 years after Dec. 23, 2022, this analysis is amended by striking items 3607 to 3616.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2022**—Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LIX, §5921(d)(2), Dec. 23, 2022, 136 Stat. 3458, struck out items 3607 "Definitions", 3608 "Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program", 3609 "Roles and responsibilities of the General Services Administration", 3610 "FedRAMP Board", 3611 "Independent assessment", 3612 "Declaration of foreign interests", 3613 "Roles and responsibilities of agencies", 3614 "Roles and responsibilities of the Office of Management and Budget", 3615 "Reports to Congress; GAO report", and 3616 "Federal Secure Cloud Advisory Committee". See Effective Date of 2022 Amendment note below.

Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LIX, §5921(c), Dec. 23, 2022, 136 Stat. 3458, added items 3607 to 3616.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date of 2022 Amendment ####

Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LIX, §5921(d)(2), Dec. 23, 2022, 136 Stat. 3458, provided that, effective on the date that is 5 years after Dec. 23, 2022, this analysis is amended by striking items 3607 to 3616.

