
### §7596. Provision of goods and services at Kwajalein Atoll ###

§7596. Provision of goods and services at Kwajalein Atoll

(a) Authority.—(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), the Secretary of the Army, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, may provide goods and services, including interatoll transportation, to the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands and other eligible patrons, as determined by the Secretary of the Army, at Kwajalein Atoll.

(2) The Secretary of the Army may not provide goods or services under this section if doing so would be inconsistent, as determined by the Secretary of State, with the Compact of Free Association between the Government of the United States and the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands or any subsidiary agreement or implementing arrangement.

(b) Reimbursement.—(1) The Secretary of the Army may collect reimbursement from the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands and eligible patrons for the provision of goods or services under subsection (a).

(2) The amount collected for goods or services under this subsection may not be greater than the total amount of actual costs to the United States for providing the goods or services.

(c) Necessary Expenses.—Amounts appropriated to the Department of the Army may be used for necessary expenses associated with providing goods and services under this section.

(d) Regulations.—The Secretary of the Army shall issue regulations to carry out this section.

(Added Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XII, §1299A(a), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 3997.)

#### References in Text ####

The Compact of Free Association between the Government of the United States and the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, referred to in subsec. (a)(2), probably means the Compact of Free Association between the Government of the United States and the Governments of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia, which is contained in section 201 of Pub. L. 99–239, set out as a note under section 1901 of Title 48, Territories and Insular Possessions.

### **CHAPTER 769—SALE OF SERVICEABLE MATERIAL** ###

Sec.
7621.Quartermaster supplies: members of armed forces; veterans; executive or military departments and employees; prices.
7622.Rations: commissioned officers in field.
7624.Medical supplies: civilian employees of the Army; American National Red Cross; Armed Forces Retirement Home.
7625.Ordnance property: officers of armed forces; civilian employees of Army; American National Red Cross; educational institutions; homes for veterans' orphans.
7626.Aircraft supplies and services: foreign military or air attaché.
7627.Supplies: educational institutions.
7628.Airplane parts and accessories: civilian flying schools.
7629.Proceeds: disposition.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §808(e)(4), (f)(1), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1839, redesignated chapter 439 of this title as this chapter and items 4621 to 4629 as 7621 to 7629, respectively.

**1990**—Pub. L. 101–510, div. A, title XV, §1533(a)(5)(C), Nov. 5, 1990, 104 Stat. 1734, amended item 4624 generally, substituting "Armed Forces Retirement Home" for "Soldiers' and Airmen's Home".

**1980**—Pub. L. 96–513, title V, §512(18)(C), Dec. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 2930, inserted "and Airmen's" after "Soldiers' " in item 4624.

**1970**—Pub. L. 91–482, §2B, Oct. 21, 1970, 84 Stat. 1082, struck out item 4623 "Tobacco: enlisted members of Army".

