
### §5949. Hostile fire pay ###

§5949. Hostile fire pay

(a) The head of an Executive agency may pay an employee hostile fire pay at the rate of $150 for any month in which the employee was—

(1) subject to hostile fire or explosion of hostile mines;

(2) on duty in an area in which the employee was in imminent danger of being exposed to hostile fire or explosion of hostile mines and in which, during the period on duty in that area, other employees were subject to hostile fire or explosion of hostile mines; or

(3) killed, injured, or wounded by hostile fire, explosion of a hostile mine, or any other hostile action.

(b) An employee covered by subsection (a)(3) who is hospitalized for the treatment of his or her injury or wound may be paid hostile fire pay under this section for not more than three additional months during which the employee is so hospitalized.

(c) An employee may be paid hostile fire pay under this section in addition to other pay and allowances to which entitled, except that an employee may not be paid hostile fire pay under this section for periods of time during which the employee receives payment under section 5925 of this title because of exposure to political violence or payment under section 5928 of this title.

(Added Pub. L. 107–107, div. A, title XI, §1111(a), Dec. 28, 2001, 115 Stat. 1238.)

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date ####

Pub. L. 107–107, div. A, title XI, §1111(c), Dec. 28, 2001, 115 Stat. 1238, as amended by Pub. L. 108–375, div. A, title X, §1084(h)(3), Oct. 28, 2004, 118 Stat. 2064, provided that: "Section 5949 of title 5, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), is effective as if enacted into law on September 11, 2001, and may be applied with respect to any hostile action that took place on or after that date."

## Subpart E—Attendance and Leave ##

### **CHAPTER 61—HOURS OF WORK** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ####

Sec.
6101.Basic 40-hour workweek; work schedules; regulations.
[6102.Repealed.]
6103.Holidays.
6104.Holidays; daily, hourly, and piece-work basis employees.
6105.Closing of Executive departments.
6106.Time clocks; restrictions.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—FLEXIBLE AND COMPRESSED WORK SCHEDULES ####

6120.Purpose.
6121.Definitions.
6122.Flexible schedules; agencies authorized to use.
6123.Flexible schedules; computation of premium pay.
6124.Flexible schedules; holidays.
6125.Flexible schedules; time-recording devices.
6126.Flexible schedules; credit hours; accumulation and compensation.
6127.Compressed schedules; agencies authorized to use.
6128.Compressed schedules; computation of premium pay.
6129.Administration of leave and retirement provisions.
6130.Application of programs in the case of collective bargaining agreements.
6131.Criteria and review.
6132.Prohibition of coercion.
6133.Regulations; technical assistance; program review.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**1982**—Pub. L. 97–221, §2(b), July 23, 1982, 96 Stat. 233, inserted "SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS" before item 6101 and inserted "SUBCHAPTER II—FLEXIBLE AND COMPRESSED WORK SCHEDULES" and items 6120 to 6133 after item 6106.

**1972**—Pub. L. 92–392, §7(b), Aug. 19, 1972, 86 Stat. 573, struck out item 6102 "Eight-hour day; 40-hour work week; wage-board employees".

### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ###

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**1982**—Pub. L. 97–221, §2(a)(1), July 23, 1982, 96 Stat. 227, added subchapter I heading so as to designate existing provisions as "SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS".

