
### §7031. Principles governing the use of electronic signatures in international transactions ###

§7031. Principles governing the use of electronic signatures in international transactions

#### (a) Promotion of electronic signatures ####

#### (1) Required actions ####

The Secretary of Commerce shall promote the acceptance and use, on an international basis, of electronic signatures in accordance with the principles specified in paragraph (2) and in a manner consistent with section 7001 of this title. The Secretary of Commerce shall take all actions necessary in a manner consistent with such principles to eliminate or reduce, to the maximum extent possible, the impediments to commerce in electronic signatures, for the purpose of facilitating the development of interstate and foreign commerce.

#### (2) Principles ####

The principles specified in this paragraph are the following:

(A) Remove paper-based obstacles to electronic transactions by adopting relevant principles from the Model Law on Electronic Commerce adopted in 1996 by the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law.

(B) Permit parties to a transaction to determine the appropriate authentication technologies and implementation models for their transactions, with assurance that those technologies and implementation models will be recognized and enforced.

(C) Permit parties to a transaction to have the opportunity to prove in court or other proceedings that their authentication approaches and their transactions are valid.

(D) Take a nondiscriminatory approach to electronic signatures and authentication methods from other jurisdictions.

#### (b) Consultation ####

In conducting the activities required by this section, the Secretary shall consult with users and providers of electronic signature products and services and other interested persons.

#### (c) Definitions ####

As used in this section, the terms "electronic record" and "electronic signature" have the same meanings provided in section 7006 of this title.

(Pub. L. 106–229, title III, §301, June 30, 2000, 114 Stat. 475.)

### **CHAPTER 97—WOMEN'S BUSINESS ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT** ###

Sec.
7101.Establishment of the Interagency Committee.
7102.Duties of the Interagency Committee.
7103.Membership of the Interagency Committee.
7104.Reports from the Interagency Committee.
7105.Establishment of the National Women's Business Council.
7106.Duties of the Council.
7107.Membership of the Council.
7108.Definitions.
7109.Studies and other research.
7110.Authorization of appropriations.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

This chapter is comprised of title IV of Pub. L. 100–533, as added by Pub. L. 103–403, title IV, §413, Oct. 22, 1994, 108 Stat. 4193, and amended. Title IV of Pub. L. 100–533 was formerly set out as a note under section 631 of this title.

