
### §646. Other provisions ###

§646. Other provisions

#### (a) OMB ####

Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the initial rule making required under section 642(a)(1) of this title shall be exempt from review by the Office of Management and Budget.

#### (b) PRA ####

Subchapter I of chapter 35 of title 44 (commonly known as the "Paperwork Reduction Act") shall not apply to any rule making or other action by the Commission required under this subchapter.

#### (c) Execution of responsibilities ####

Except, with respect to an entity that is not the Universal Service Administrative Company, as provided in section 642(a)(2)(B) of this title, section 642(b)(1)(A)(ii) of this title, and subsections (c), (d), and (e) of section 644 of this title, the Commission—

(1) including the offices of the Commission, shall carry out the responsibilities assigned to the Commission under this subchapter; and

(2) may not delegate any of the responsibilities assigned to the Commission under this subchapter to any third party, including the Universal Service Administrative Company.

#### (d) Reporting ####

Each fiscal year, the Commission shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives a report that summarizes the implementation of this subchapter and associated enforcement activities conducted during the previous fiscal year.

#### (e) Rule of construction ####

If the Commission, before March 23, 2020, has taken an action that, in whole or in part, implements this subchapter, the Commission shall not be required to revisit such action to the extent that such action is consistent with this subchapter.

(June 19, 1934, ch. 652, title VIII, §806, as added Pub. L. 116–130, §2, Mar. 23, 2020, 134 Stat. 238; amended Pub. L. 117–58, div. F, title I, §60102(h)(2)(E)(ii), Nov. 15, 2021, 135 Stat. 1198.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2021**—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 117–58 substituted "any rule making or other action by the Commission required under this subchapter" for "the initial rule making required under section 642(a)(1) of this title".

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Implementation ####

For requirement to implement amendment made by section 60102(h)(2)(E)(ii) of Pub. L. 117–58 as soon as possible after Nov. 15, 2021, see section 1702(h)(2)(E)(iii) of this title.

### **CHAPTER 6—COMMUNICATIONS SATELLITE SYSTEM** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ####

Sec.
701.Omitted.
702.Definitions.
703.Repealed.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—FEDERAL COORDINATION, PLANNING, AND REGULATION ####

721.Implementation of policy.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—COMMUNICATIONS SATELLITE CORPORATION ####

731 to 735. Omitted.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS ####

741 to 744. Omitted.
#### SUBCHAPTER V—INTERNATIONAL MARITIME SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS ####

751, 752.Omitted.
753.Implementation of policy.
754 to 756. Repealed.
757.Definitions.
#### SUBCHAPTER VI—COMMUNICATIONS COMPETITION AND PRIVATIZATION ####

#### Part A—Actions To Ensure Pro-Competitive Privatization ####

761.Federal Communications Commission licensing.
761a.Incentives; limitation on expansion pending privatization.
#### Part B—Federal Communications Commission Licensing Criteria: Privatization Criteria ####

763.General criteria to ensure a pro-competitive privatization of INTELSAT and Inmarsat.
763a.Specific criteria for INTELSAT.
763b.Repealed.
763c.Space segment capacity of the GMDSS.
763d.Encouraging market access and privatization.
#### Part C—Deregulation and Other Statutory Changes ####

765.Access to INTELSAT.
765a.Signatory role.
765b.Elimination of procurement preferences.
765c.ITU functions.
765d.Termination of provisions of this chapter.
765e.Repealed.
765f.Satellite auctions.
765g.Exclusivity arrangements.
#### Part D—Negotiations To Pursue Privatization ####

767.Methods to pursue privatization.
#### Part E—Definitions ####

769.Definitions.

### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ###

