
### §2108. Tribal right to develop mineral resources ###

§2108. Tribal right to develop mineral resources

Nothing in this chapter shall impair any right of an Indian tribe organized under section 16 or 17 of the Act of June 18, 1934 (48 Stat. 987), as amended [25 U.S.C. 5123, 5124], to develop their mineral resources as may be provided in any constitution or charter adopted by such tribe pursuant to that Act [25 U.S.C. 5101 et seq.].

(Pub. L. 97–382, §9, Dec. 22, 1982, 96 Stat. 1940.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

Act of June 18, 1934, referred to in text, popularly known as the Indian Reorganization Act, is classified generally to chapter 45 (§5101 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 5101 of this title and Tables.

### **CHAPTER 24—INDIAN LAND CONSOLIDATION** ###

Sec.
2201.Definitions.
2202.Other applicable provisions.
2203.Adoption of land consolidation plan with approval of Secretary.
2204.Purchase of trust or restricted or controlled lands at no less than fair market value; requisite conditions.
2205.Tribal probate codes; acquisitions of fractional interests by tribes.
2206.Descent and distribution.
2207.Full faith and credit to tribal actions under tribal ordinances limiting descent and distribution of trust or restricted or controlled lands.
2208.Conveyancing authority upon sale or exchange of tribal lands; removal of trust status of individually owned lands.
2209.Trusteeship title of United States for any Indian or Indian tribe.
2210.Tax exemption.
2211.Governing body of tribe; construction of chapter as not vesting with authority not authorized by tribal constitution or by-laws.
2212.Fractional interest acquisition program.
2213.Administration of acquired fractional interests; disposition of proceeds.
2214.Establishing fair market value.
2215.Acquisition Fund.
2216.Trust and restricted land transactions.
2217.Reports to Congress.
2218.Approval of leases, rights-of-way, and sales of natural resources.
2219.Application to Alaska.
2220.Owner-managed interests.
2221.Annual notice and filing; current whereabouts of interest owners.

