
### §1459. Separability ###

§1459. Separability

Notwithstanding any other evidences of the intention of Congress, it is hereby declared to be the controlling intent of Congress that if any provision of this chapter, or the application thereof to any person or circumstances, is held invalid, the remainder of this chapter, or the application of such provision to persons or circumstances other than those as to which it is held invalid, shall not be affected thereby.

(Pub. L. 91–351, title III, §310, July 24, 1970, 84 Stat. 457; Pub. L. 101–73, title VII, §731(l), Aug. 9, 1989, 103 Stat. 435.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**1989**—Pub. L. 101–73 amended section catchline and struck out first sentence which read as follows: "Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, or as otherwise provided by the Corporation or by laws hereafter enacted by the Congress expressly in limitation of provisions of this chapter, the powers and functions of the Corporation and of the Board of Directors shall be exercisable, and the provisions of this chapter shall be applicable and effective, without regard to any other law."

### **CHAPTER 12—SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS** ###

Sec.
1461.Short title.
1462.Definitions.
1462a.Administrative provisions.
1463.Supervision of savings associations.
1464.Federal savings associations.
1464a.Election to operate as a covered savings association.
1465.State law preemption standards for Federal savings associations clarified.
1466.Applicability.
1466a.District associations.
1467.Examination fees.
1467a.Regulation of holding companies.
1467b.Intermediate holding companies.
1468.Transactions with affiliates; extensions of credit to executive officers, directors, and principal shareholders.
1468a.Advertising.
1468b.Powers of examiners.
1468c.Separability.
1469.Authority to invest in State housing corporations.
1470.Federal supervision of insured institutions, State member and nonmember banks; access to information; definitions.

