
### §5506. Tax exemption for conveyed lands and gross receipts; distribution of gross receipts to tribal members ###

§5506. Tax exemption for conveyed lands and gross receipts; distribution of gross receipts to tribal members

All property conveyed to tribes pursuant to this chapter and all the receipts therefrom referred to in section 5505 of this title, shall be exempt from Federal, State, and local taxation so long as such property is held in trust by the United States. Any distribution of such receipts to tribal members shall neither be considered as income or resources of such members for purposes of any such taxation nor as income, resources, or otherwise utilized as the basis for denying or reducing the financial assistance or other benefits to which such member or his household would otherwise be entitled to under the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 301 et seq.] or any other Federal or federally assisted program.

(Pub. L. 94–114, §6, Oct. 17, 1975, 89 Stat. 579.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

The Social Security Act, referred to in text, is act Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531, 49 Stat. 620, which is classified generally to chapter 7 (§301 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 1305 of Title 42 and Tables.

#### Codification ####

Section was formerly classified to section 459e of this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

### **CHAPTER 48—INDIAN TRUST ASSET REFORM** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—RECOGNITION OF TRUST RESPONSIBILITY ####

Sec.
5601.Findings.
5602.Reaffirmation of policy.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—INDIAN TRUST ASSET MANAGEMENT DEMONSTRATION PROJECT ####

5611.Definitions.
5612.Establishment of demonstration project; selection of participating Indian tribes.
5613.Indian trust asset management plan.
5614.Forest land management and surface leasing activities.
5615.Effect of subchapter.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—IMPROVING EFFICIENCY AND STREAMLINING PROCESSES ####

5631.Purpose.
5632.Definitions.
5633.Under Secretary for Indian Affairs.
5634.Office of Special Trustee for American Indians.
5635.Appraisals and valuations.
5636.Cost savings.

### SUBCHAPTER I—RECOGNITION OF TRUST RESPONSIBILITY ###

