
### §3631. Violations; penalties ###

§3631. Violations; penalties

Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure, intimidate or interfere with—

(a) any person because of his race, color, religion, sex, handicap (as such term is defined in section 3602 of this title), familial status (as such term is defined in section 3602 of this title), or national origin and because he is or has been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or

(b) any person because he is or has been, or in order to intimidate such person or any other person or any class of persons from—

(1) participating, without discrimination on account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap (as such term is defined in section 3602 of this title), familial status (as such term is defined in section 3602 of this title), or national origin, in any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in subsection (a); or

(2) affording another person or class of persons opportunity or protection so to participate; or

(c) any citizen because he is or has been, or in order to discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap (as such term is defined in section 3602 of this title), familial status (as such term is defined in section 3602 of this title), or national origin, in any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in subsection (a), or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity to so participate—

shall be fined under title 18 or imprisoned not more than one year, or both; and if bodily injury results from the acts committed in violation of this section or if such acts include the use, attempted use, or threatened use of a dangerous weapon, explosives, or fire shall be fined under title 18 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death results from the acts committed in violation of this section or if such acts include kidnapping or an attempt to kidnap, aggravated sexual abuse or an attempt to commit aggravated sexual abuse, or an attempt to kill, shall be fined under title 18 or imprisoned for any term of years or for life, or both.

(Pub. L. 90–284, title IX, §901, Apr. 11, 1968, 82 Stat. 89; Pub. L. 93–383, title VIII, §808(b)(4), Aug. 22, 1974, 88 Stat. 729; Pub. L. 100–430, §9, Sept. 13, 1988, 102 Stat. 1635; Pub. L. 103–322, title XXXII, §320103(e), Sept. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 2110; Pub. L. 104–294, title VI, §604(b)(15), (27), Oct. 11, 1996, 110 Stat. 3507, 3508.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**1996**—Pub. L. 104–294, §604(b)(27), substituted "under title 18" for "under this title" wherever appearing in closing provisions.

Pub. L. 104–294, §604(b)(15), made technical amendment to directory language of Pub. L. 103–322, §320103(e). See 1994 Amendment note below.

**1994**—Pub. L. 103–322, §320103(e)(1), as amended by Pub. L. 104–294, §604(b)(15), which directed amendment in the caption by striking "bodily injury; death;", could not be executed because the words "bodily injury; death;" do not appear in the section catchline in the original.

Pub. L. 103–322, §320103(e)(2)–(7), as amended by Pub. L. 104–294, §604(b)(15), in concluding provisions, substituted "under this title" for "not more than $1,000," before "or imprisoned not more than one year", inserted "from the acts committed in violation of this section or if such acts include the use, attempted use, or threatened use of a dangerous weapon, explosives, or fire" after "bodily injury results", substituted "under this title" for "not more than $10,000," before "or imprisoned not more than ten years", inserted "from the acts committed in violation of this section or if such acts include kidnapping or an attempt to kidnap, aggravated sexual abuse or an attempt to commit aggravated sexual abuse, or an attempt to kill," after "death results", substituted "fined under this title or imprisoned" for "subject to imprisonment" before "for any term of years", and inserted ", or both" before period at end.

**1988**—Cls. (a), (b)(1), (c). Pub. L. 100–430 inserted ", handicap (as such term is defined in section 3602 of this title), familial status (as such term is defined in section 3602 of this title)," after "sex".

**1974**—Pub. L. 93–383 inserted ", sex" after "religion" wherever appearing in cls. (a), (b)(1), and (c).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date of 1996 Amendment ####

Amendment by Pub. L. 104–294 effective Sept. 13, 1994, see section 604(d) of Pub. L. 104–294, set out as a note under section 13 of Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure.

#### Effective Date of 1988 Amendment ####

Amendment by Pub. L. 100–430 effective on 180th day beginning after Sept. 13, 1988, see section 13(a) of Pub. L. 100–430, set out as a note under section 3601 of this title.

#### Federally Protected Activities; Penalties ####

Penalties for violations respecting federally protected activities not applicable to and not affecting activities under fair housing provisions of subchapter I of this chapter, see section 101(b) of Pub. L. 90–284, set out as a note under section 245 of Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure.

### **CHAPTER 46—JUSTICE SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT** ###

Sec.
3701, 3702.Repealed or Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS ####

3711 to 3716a.Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF JUSTICE ####

3721 to 3724.Repealed or Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS ####

3731 to 3735.Repealed or Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—ESTABLISHMENT OF BUREAU OF JUSTICE ASSISTANCE ####

3741 to 3743.Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER V—BUREAU OF JUSTICE ASSISTANCE GRANT PROGRAMS ####

#### Part A—Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program ####

3750 to 3758.Transferred or Omitted.
#### Part B—Discretionary Grants ####

#### subpart 1—grants to public and private entities ####

3760 to 3762.Repealed.
#### subpart 2—grants to public agencies ####

3762a, 3762b.Transferred.
#### subpart 3—general requirements ####

3763, 3764.Transferred.
#### subpart 4—grants to private entities ####

3765.Transferred.
#### Part C—Administrative Provisions ####

3766 to 3766b.Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER VI—CRIMINAL JUSTICE FACILITY CONSTRUCTION: PILOT PROGRAM ####

3769 to 3769d.Repealed.
#### SUBCHAPTER VII—FBI TRAINING OF STATE AND LOCAL CRIMINAL JUSTICE PERSONNEL ####

3771.Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER VIII—ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS ####

3781 to 3789p.Repealed or Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER IX—DEFINITIONS ####

3791.Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER X—FUNDING ####

3793 to 3793c.Repealed or Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER XI—CRIMINAL PENALTIES ####

3795 to 3795b.Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER XII—PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICERS' DEATH BENEFITS ####

#### Part A—Death Benefits ####

3796 to 3796c–3. Transferred.
#### Part B—Educational Assistance to Dependents of Civilian Federal Law Enforcement Officers Killed or Disabled in Line of Duty ####

3796d to 3796d–7. Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER XII–A—REGIONAL INFORMATION SHARING SYSTEMS ####

3796h.Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER XII–B—GRANTS FOR CLOSED-CIRCUIT TELEVISING OF TESTIMONY OF CHILDREN WHO ARE VICTIMS OF ABUSE ####

3796aa to 3796aa–8. Repealed or Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER XII–C—RURAL DRUG ENFORCEMENT ####

3796bb, 3796bb–1. Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER XII–D—CRIMINAL CHILD SUPPORT ENFORCEMENT ####

3796cc to 3796cc–6. Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER XII–E—PUBLIC SAFETY AND COMMUNITY POLICING; "COPS ON THE BEAT" ####

3796dd to 3796dd–8. Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER XII–F—JUVENILE ACCOUNTABILITY BLOCK GRANTS ####

3796ee to 3796ee–10. Transferred or Omitted.
#### SUBCHAPTER XII–G—RESIDENTIAL SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT FOR STATE PRISONERS ####

3796ff to 3796ff–4. Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER XII–H—GRANTS TO COMBAT VIOLENT CRIMES AGAINST WOMEN ####

3796gg to 3796gg–11. Repealed, Transferred, or Omitted.
#### SUBCHAPTER XII–I—GRANTS TO ENCOURAGE ARREST POLICIES AND ENFORCEMENT OF PROTECTION ORDERS ####

3796hh to 3796hh–5. Repealed or Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER XII–J—MENTAL HEALTH COURTS ####

3796ii to 3796ii–8. Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER XII–K—FAMILY SUPPORT ####

3796jj to 3796jj–7. Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER XII–L—DNA IDENTIFICATION GRANTS ####

3796kk to 3796kk–6. Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER XII–M—MATCHING GRANT PROGRAM FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT ARMOR VESTS ####

3796ll to 3796ll–3. Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER XIII—TRANSITION; EFFECTIVE DATE; REPEALER ####

3797.Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER XIV—MATCHING GRANT PROGRAM FOR SCHOOL SECURITY ####

3797a to 3797e.Repealed, Transferred, or Omitted.
#### SUBCHAPTER XV—PAUL COVERDELL FORENSIC SCIENCES IMPROVEMENT GRANTS ####

3797j to 3797*o.*Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER XV–A—MENTAL HEALTH AND DRUG TREATMENT ALTERNATIVES TO INCARCERATION PROGRAMS ####

3797q.Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER XV–B—GRANTS FOR FAMILY-BASED SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT ####

3797s to 3797s–6. Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER XVI—DRUG COURTS ####

3797u to 3797u–8. Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER XVII—OFFENDER REENTRY AND COMMUNITY SAFETY ####

3797w to 3797w–2. Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER XVIII—CRIME FREE RURAL STATE GRANTS ####

3797y to 3797y–4. Transferred or Omitted.
#### SUBCHAPTER XIX—ADULT AND JUVENILE COLLABORATION PROGRAM GRANTS ####

3797aa, 3797aa–1. Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER XX—CONFRONTING USE OF METHAMPHETAMINE ####

3797cc to 3797cc–3. Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER XX–A—LOAN REPAYMENT FOR PROSECUTORS AND PUBLIC DEFENDERS ####

3797cc–21.Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER XX–B—GRANT PROGRAM TO EVALUATE AND IMPROVE EDUCATIONAL METHODS AT PRISONS, JAILS, AND JUVENILE FACILITIES ####

3797dd, 3797dd–1. Transferred or Omitted.
#### SUBCHAPTER XXI—SEX OFFENDER APPREHENSION GRANTS; JUVENILE SEX OFFENDER TREATMENT GRANTS ####

3797ee, 3797ee–1. Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER XXII–COMPREHENSIVE OPIOID ABUSE GRANT PROGRAM ####

3797ff to 3797ff–6. Transferred.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

This chapter has been editorially reorganized. Title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, which comprised the chapter, has been editorially reclassified and renumbered as chapter 101 (§10101 et seq.) of Title 34, Crime Control and Law Enforcement.

