
### §130. Entry of public lands in States where no land offices exist ###

§130. Entry of public lands in States where no land offices exist

Public lands situated in States in which there are no land offices may be entered at the Bureau of Land Management, subject to the provisions of law touching the entry of public lands; and the necessary proofs and affidavits required in such cases may be made before some officer competent to administer oaths, whose official character shall be duly certified by the clerk of a court of record. And moneys received by the Secretary of the Interior, or such officer as he may designate, for lands entered by cash entry shall be covered into the Treasury.

(Mar. 3, 1877, ch. 102, §1, 19 Stat. 315; June 19, 1878, ch. 329, §1, 20 Stat. 201; 1946 Reorg. Plan No. 3, §403, eff. July 16, 1946, 11 F.R. 7876, 60 Stat. 1100.)

#### **Executive Documents** ####

#### Transfer of Functions ####

For transfer of functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of Department of the Interior, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Interior, with power to delegate, see Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1950, §§1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, 64 Stat. 1262, set out under section 1451 of this title.

"Bureau of Land Management" substituted for "General Land Office" and "Secretary of the Interior, or such officer as he may designate," substituted for "Commissioner of the General Land Office" on authority of section 403 of Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1946. See note set out under section 1 of this title.

### **CHAPTER 6—WITHDRAWAL FROM SETTLEMENT, LOCATION, SALE, OR ENTRY** ###

Sec.
141.Repealed.
142.Rights of occupants or claimants of oil- or gas-bearing lands; exceptions to withdrawals.
143.Repealed.
144.Entries on land withdrawn as valuable for oil or gas validated.
145.Sale of lands withdrawn.
146.Patents to purchasers of lands withdrawn.
147.Disposition of proceeds of sale of withdrawn lands.
148.Repealed.
149.Exchange of private lands included in Indian reservation for other lands.
150.Withdrawals of land for Indian reservations prohibited.
151.Opening of lands restored to entry after withdrawals.
152.Restoration of lands previously withdrawn.
153.Reservation of lands in North Dakota.
154.Vacation of withdrawals under reclamation law; lands valuable for minerals; reservation of rights, ways, and easements; rules and regulations.
155.Withdrawal, reservation, or restriction of public lands for defense purposes; "public lands" defined; exception.
156.Approval by Congress necessary for withdrawal, reservation, or restriction of over 5,000 acres for any Department of Defense project or facility.
157.Application for withdrawal, reservation, or restriction; specifications.
158.Mineral resources on withdrawn lands; disposition and exploration.

