
### §2416. Time for commencing actions brought by the United States—Exclusions ###

§2416. Time for commencing actions brought by the United States—Exclusions

For the purpose of computing the limitations periods established in section 2415, there shall be excluded all periods during which—

(a) the defendant or the res is outside the United States, its territories and possessions, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; or

(b) the defendant is exempt from legal process because of infancy, mental incompetence, diplomatic immunity, or for any other reason; or

(c) facts material to the right of action are not known and reasonably could not be known by an official of the United States charged with the responsibility to act in the circumstances; or

(d) the United States is in a state of war declared pursuant to article I, section 8, of the Constitution of the United States.

(Added Pub. L. 89–505, §1, July 18, 1966, 80 Stat. 305.)

### **CHAPTER 163—FINES, PENALTIES AND FORFEITURES** ###

Sec.
2461.Mode of recovery.
2462.Time for commencing proceedings.
2463.Property taken under revenue law not repleviable.
2464.Security; special bond.
2465.Return of property to claimant; liability for wrongful seizure; attorney fees, costs, and interest.
2466.Fugitive disentitlement.
2467.Enforcement of foreign judgment.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2000**—Pub. L. 106–185, §§4(b), 14(b), 15(b), Apr. 25, 2000, 114 Stat. 213, 219, 221, substituted "Return of property to claimant; liability for wrongful seizure; attorney fees, costs, and interest" for "Return of property to claimant; certificate of reasonable cause; liability for wrongful seizure" in item 2465 and added items 2466 and 2467.

