
### §1344. Treasury Department: reports ###

§1344. Treasury Department: reports

In addition to the usual number of the finance report of the Secretary of the Treasury, one thousand copies for the Senate and two thousand for the House of Representatives shall be printed in addition to those published as part of the departmental report.

In addition to the usual number of the annual report of the Comptroller of the Currency, thirteen thousand copies shall be printed: one thousand for the Senate, two thousand for the House of Representatives, and ten thousand for distribution by the Comptroller of the Currency.

(Pub. L. 90–620, Oct. 22, 1968, 82 Stat. 1273.)

#### Historical and Revision Notes ####

Based on 44 U.S. Code, 1964 ed., §295 (Jan. 12, 1895, ch. 23, §73, 28 Stat. 616; Mar. 4, 1907, No. 25, 34 Stat. 1425).

### **CHAPTER 15—FEDERAL REGISTER AND CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS** ###

Sec.
1501.Definitions.
1502.Custody and printing of Federal documents; appointment of Director.
1503.Filing documents with Office; notation of time; public inspection; transmission for printing.
1504."Federal Register"; printing; contents; distribution; price.
1505.Documents to be published in Federal Register.
1506.Administrative Committee of the Federal Register; establishment and composition; powers and duties.
1507.Filing document as constructive notice; publication in Federal Register as presumption of validity; judicial notice; citation.
1508.Publication in Federal Register as notice of hearing.
1509.Costs of publication, etc.
1510.Code of Federal Regulations.
1511.International agreements excluded from provisions of chapter.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**1977**—Pub. L. 95–94, title IV, §408(a)(2), Aug. 5, 1977, 91 Stat. 683, substituted "Costs of publication, etc." for "Cost of publication; appropriations authorized; penalty mail privilege" in item 1509.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Federal Records Management Provisions Without Effect on Chapter ####

Authority and responsibilities under chapter not limited or repealed by Federal Records Management Amendments of 1976, see section 5(b) of Pub. L. 94–575, set out as a note under section 2901 of this title.

