
### §4363. Financial and program audit by Secretary ###

§4363. Financial and program audit by Secretary

Funds appropriated in this Act or subsequent Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Acts to the National Technical Institute for the Deaf, and Gallaudet University shall be subject to financial and program audit by the Secretary of Education and the Secretary may withhold all or any portion of these appropriations if he determines that an institution has not cooperated fully in the conduct of such audits.

(Pub. L. 102–394, title III, §301, Oct. 6, 1992, 106 Stat. 1819.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

Section is from the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1993, and was not enacted as part of the Education of the Deaf Act of 1986 which comprises this chapter, and contained additional provisions relating to the American Printing House for the Blind and Howard University, which are set out as sections 106a and 130a of this title, respectively.

### **CHAPTER 56—AMERICAN INDIAN, ALASKA NATIVE, AND NATIVE HAWAIIAN CULTURE AND ART DEVELOPMENT** ###

Sec.
4401.Findings.
4402.Definitions.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—AMERICAN INDIANS AND ALASKA NATIVES ####

4411.Establishment of Institute.
4412.Board of Trustees.
4413.Executive Board.
4414.General powers of Board.
4415.President of Institute.
4416.Staff of Institute.
4417.Functions of Institute.
4418.Indian preference.
4419.Nonprofit and nonpolitical nature of Institute.
4420.Tax status; tort liability.
4421.Transfer of functions.
4422.Reports.
4423.Headquarters.
4424.Compliance with other Acts.
4425.Endowment programs.
4426.Provision of facilities.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—NATIVE HAWAIIANS AND ALASKA NATIVES ####

4441.Program for Native Hawaiian and Alaska Native culture and arts development.
4442.Administrative provisions.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS ####

4451.Authorization of appropriations.

