
### §1472. Assistance for livestock producers ###

§1472. Assistance for livestock producers

#### (a) Definition of livestock ####

In this section, the term "livestock" includes elk, reindeer, bison, horses, and deer.

#### (b) Availability of assistance ####

In such amounts as are provided in advance in appropriation Acts, the Secretary of Agriculture may provide assistance to dairy and other livestock producers to cover economic losses incurred by such producers in connection with the production of livestock.

#### (c) Types of assistance ####

The assistance provided to livestock producers may be in the following forms:

(1) Indemnity payments to livestock producers who incur livestock mortality losses.

(2) Livestock feed assistance to livestock producers affected by shortages of feed.

(3) Compensation for sudden increases in production costs.

(4) Such other assistance, and for such other economic losses, as the Secretary considers appropriate.

#### (d) Limitations ####

The Secretary may not use the funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation to provide assistance under this section.

#### (e) Authorization of appropriations ####

There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section.

(Pub. L. 107–171, title X, §10104, May 13, 2002, 116 Stat. 488; Pub. L. 108–447, div. A, title VII, §785(b)(2), Dec. 8, 2004, 118 Stat. 2850; Pub. L. 109–97, title VII, §784(b)(3), Nov. 10, 2005, 119 Stat. 2162.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

Section was enacted as part of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002, and not as part of the Emergency Livestock Feed Assistance Act of 1988 which comprises this subchapter or as part of the Agricultural Act of 1949 which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of the 1949 Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1421 of this title and Tables.

#### Amendments ####

**2005**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 109–97 substituted "bison, horses, and deer" for "and bison".

**2004**—Pub. L. 108–447 added subsec. (a) and redesignated former subsecs. (a) to (d) as (b) to (e), respectively.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date of 2005 Amendment ####

Amendment by Pub. L. 109–97 applicable to losses resulting from a disaster that occurs on or after July 28, 2005, and inapplicable to losses resulting from a disaster that occurs before such date, see section 784(c) of Pub. L. 109–97, set out as a note under section 1471 of this title.

### **CHAPTER 36—CROP INSURANCE** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—FEDERAL CROP INSURANCE ####

Sec.
1501.Short title and application of other provisions.
1502.Purpose; definitions; protection of information; relation to other laws.
1503.Federal Crop Insurance Corporation; creation; offices.
1504.Capital stock of Corporation.
1504a.Capitalization of Corporation.
1505.Management of Corporation.
1506.General powers.
1506a, 1506b. Omitted.
1507.Personnel of Corporation.
1508.Crop insurance.
1508a.Double insurance and prevented planting.
1508b.Stacked Income Protection Plan for producers of upland cotton.
1508c.Peanut revenue crop insurance.
1508d.Coverage for forage and grazing.
1509.Exemption of indemnities from levy.
1510.Deposit and investment of funds; Federal Reserve banks as fiscal agents.
1511.Tax exemption.
1512.Corporation as fiscal agent of Government.
1513.Books of account and annual reports of Corporation.
1514.Crimes and offenses.
1515.Program compliance and integrity.
1516.Funding.
1517.Separability.
1518."Agricultural commodity" defined.
1519.Repealed.
1520.Producer eligibility.
1521.Ineligibility for catastrophic risk and noninsured assistance payments.
1522.Research and development.
1523.Pilot programs.
1524.Education and risk management assistance.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—SUPPLEMENTAL AGRICULTURAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE ####

1531.Supplemental agricultural disaster assistance.

### SUBCHAPTER I—FEDERAL CROP INSURANCE ###

