
### §6687. Critical technology strategies ###

§6687. Critical technology strategies

#### (a) Requirement for critical technology strategies ####

(1) The President shall develop and revise as needed a multiyear strategy for federally supported research and development for each critical technology designated by the President. In designating critical technologies for the purpose of this section, the President shall begin with the national critical technologies listed in a biennial report on national critical technologies submitted to Congress by the President pursuant to section 6683(d) [1](#6687_1_target) of this title. A critical technology strategy may cover more than one critical technology.

(2) The President shall assign responsibilities and develop procedures for conducting executive branch activities to carry out this section.

(3) During the development of a critical technology strategy, the President shall provide for the following:

(A) The development of goals and objectives for the appropriate Federal role in the development of the critical technology or technologies that the President expects to be covered by the strategy.

(B) Close consultation with appropriate representatives of United States industries, members of industry associations, representatives of labor organizations in the United States, members of professional and technical societies in the United States and other persons who are qualified to provide advice and assistance in the development of such critical technology or technologies.

(C) The development of an organizational structure within the Federal Government that is appropriate for coordinating, managing, and reviewing the Federal Government's role in the implementation of the strategy, including allocating roles among Federal departments and agencies.

(D) The development of policies and procedures for synergistic government, industrial, and university participation in the implementation of the strategy.

(E) The development of Federal budget estimates for research and development regarding the critical technology or technologies covered by the strategy for the first five fiscal years covered by that strategy.

#### (b) Report ####

Not later than February 15 of each year, beginning in 1993, the President shall submit to Congress an annual report describing the implementation of subsection (a). The annual report shall include the following:

(1) For each critical technology designated by the President for the purpose of subsection (a), a description of the progress made in implementing subsection (a) during the fiscal year preceding the fiscal year in which the report is submitted.

(2) A description of each proposed program, if any, for further implementing subsection (a) with respect to a critical technology through the date for the submission of the next annual report.

(3) A copy of each strategy, if any, completed or revised pursuant to subsection (a) during the fiscal year covered by the report.

(Pub. L. 102–190, div. A, title VIII, §822(a), (b), Dec. 5, 1991, 105 Stat. 1432, 1433.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

Section 6683 of this title, referred to in subsec. (a)(1), was omitted from the Code.

#### Codification ####

Section was enacted as part of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 1992 and 1993, and not as part of the National Science and Technology Policy, Organization, and Priorities Act of 1976 which comprises this chapter.

[1 See References in Text note below.](#6687_1)

### **CHAPTER 80—PUBLIC WORKS EMPLOYMENT** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—LOCAL PUBLIC WORKS ####

Sec.
6701.Definitions.
6702.Direct grants; Federal share.
6703.Grants supplementing Federal contributions under other Federal laws; Federal share.
6704.Grants providing State or local contributions required under State or local law.
6705.Limitations on use of grants.
6706.Implementing rules, regulations, and procedures; criteria; employment of disabled and Vietnam-era veterans; determination of applications for grants.
6707.Priority and amounts of projects.
6708.Wage standards for laborers and mechanics; enforcement.
6709.Sex discrimination; prohibition; enforcement.
6710.Authorization of appropriations.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—ANTIRECESSION PROVISIONS ####

6721.Congressional findings of fact and declaration of policy.
6722.Financial assistance.
6723.Allocation of amounts.
6724.Uses of payments.
6725.Statement of assurances as prerequisite for payments; rules governing time and manner of filing; contents of statement.
6726.Repealed.
6727.Nondiscrimination.
6728.Wage standards for laborers and mechanics; enforcement.
6729.Reports to Secretary by States and local governments; contents.
6730.Payments.
6731.Economization by State and local governments; statement of assurances, etc., required.
6732.Withholding of payments for failure to comply with statement of assurances; procedures applicable.
6733.Repealed.
6734.Administration; rules; authorization of appropriations.
6735.Program studies and recommendations; evaluation; countercyclical study.
6736.Authorization of appropriations for Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, and Virgin Islands.

### SUBCHAPTER I—LOCAL PUBLIC WORKS ###

