
### §329. Availability of appropriations for transportation ###

§329. Availability of appropriations for transportation

Appropriations for carrying out this chapter shall also be available for the transportation of any eligible person and necessary attendants to or from a hospital (including any hospital of a State or political subdivision to which an eligible person is released under section 323 of this title), to the place where a relative to whom any person is released under section 323 of this title resides, or to a person's home upon his discharge from hospitalization under this chapter.

(Pub. L. 86–571, §9, July 5, 1960, 74 Stat. 310.)

### **CHAPTER 10—ARMED FORCES RETIREMENT HOME** ###

Sec.
401.Definitions.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—ESTABLISHMENT AND OPERATION OF RETIREMENT HOME ####

411.Establishment of the Armed Forces Retirement Home.
412.Residents of Retirement Home.
413.Services provided to residents.
413a.Oversight of health care provided to residents.
414.Fees paid by residents.
415.Chief Operating Officer.
416.Advisory Council.
416a.Resident Advisory Committees.
417.Administrators, Ombudsmen, and staff of facilities.
418.Periodic inspection of retirement home facilities.
419.Armed Forces Retirement Home Trust Fund.
420.Disposition of effects of deceased persons; unclaimed property.
421.Payment of residents for services.
422.Authority to accept certain uncompensated services.
423.Preservation of historic buildings and grounds at the Armed Forces Retirement Home—Washington.
424.Repealed.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS ####

431 to 433. Repealed.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS ####

441.Repealed.

