
### §12323. Active duty pending line of duty determination required for response to sexual assault ###

§12323. Active duty pending line of duty determination required for response to sexual assault

(a) Continuation on Active Duty.—In the case of a member of a reserve component who is the alleged victim of sexual assault committed while on active duty and who is expected to be released from active duty before the determination is made regarding whether the member was assaulted while in the line of duty (in this section referred to as a "line of duty determination"), the Secretary concerned, upon the request of the member, may order the member to be retained on active duty until completion of the line of duty determination. A member eligible for continuation on active duty under this subsection shall be informed as soon as practicable after the alleged assault of the option to request continuation on active duty under this subsection.

(b) Return to Active Duty.—In the case of a member of a reserve component not on active duty who is the alleged victim of a sexual assault that occurred while the member was on active duty and when the line of duty determination is not completed, the Secretary concerned, upon the request of the member, may order the member to active duty for such time as necessary for completion of the line of duty determination.

(c) Regulations.—The Secretaries of the military departments shall prescribe regulations to carry out this section, subject to guidelines prescribed by the Secretary of Defense. The guidelines of the Secretary of Defense shall provide that—

(1) a request submitted by a member described in subsection (a) or (b) to continue on active duty, or to be ordered to active duty, respectively, must be decided within 30 days from the date of the request; and

(2) if the request is denied, the member may appeal to the first general officer or flag officer in the chain of command of the member, and in the case of such an appeal a decision on the appeal must be made within 15 days from the date of the appeal.

(Added Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title V, §571(a), Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 1753.)

### **CHAPTER 1211—NATIONAL GUARD MEMBERS IN FEDERAL SERVICE** ###

Sec.
12401.Army and Air National Guard of the United States: status.
12402.Army and Air National Guard of the United States: commissioned officers; duty in National Guard Bureau.
12403.Army and Air National Guard of the United States: members; status in which ordered into Federal service.
12404.Army and Air National Guard of the United States: mobilization; maintenance of organization.
12405.National Guard in Federal service: status.
12406.National Guard in Federal service: call.
12407.National Guard in Federal service: period of service; apportionment.
12408.National Guard in Federal service: physical examination.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**1996**—Pub. L. 104–106, div. A, title XV, §1501(b)(18)(A), Feb. 10, 1996, 110 Stat. 497, inserted "the" after "Army and Air National Guard of" in items 12401, 12402, 12403, and 12404.

