
### §15506. Supplements to Federal grant programs ###

§15506. Supplements to Federal grant programs

(a) Finding.—Congress finds that certain States and local communities of the region, including local development districts, may be unable to take maximum advantage of Federal grant programs for which the States and communities are eligible because—

(1) they lack the economic resources to provide the required matching share; or

(2) there are insufficient funds available under the applicable Federal law with respect to a project to be carried out in the region.

(b) Federal Grant Program Funding.—A Commission, with the approval of the Federal Cochairperson, may use amounts made available to carry out this subtitle—

(1) for any part of the basic Federal contribution to projects or activities under the Federal grant programs authorized by Federal laws; and

(2) to increase the Federal contribution to projects and activities under the programs above the fixed maximum part of the cost of the projects or activities otherwise authorized by the applicable law.

(c) Certification Required.—For a program, project, or activity for which any part of the basic Federal contribution to the project or activity under a Federal grant program is proposed to be made under subsection (b), the Federal contribution shall not be made until the responsible Federal official administering the Federal law authorizing the Federal contribution certifies that the program, project, or activity meets the applicable requirements of the Federal law and could be approved for Federal contribution under that law if amounts were available under the law for the program, project, or activity.

(d) Limitations in Other Laws Inapplicable.—Amounts provided pursuant to this subtitle are available without regard to any limitations on areas eligible for assistance or authorizations for appropriation in any other law.

(e) Federal Share.—The Federal share of the cost of a project or activity receiving assistance under this section shall not exceed 80 percent.

(f) Maximum Commission Contribution.—Section 15501(d), relating to limitations on Commission contributions, shall apply to a program, project, or activity receiving assistance under this section.

(Added Pub. L. 110–234, title XIV, §14217(a)(2), May 22, 2008, 122 Stat. 1477, and Pub. L. 110–246, §4(a), title XIV, §14217(a)(2), June 18, 2008, 122 Stat. 1664, 2239.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

Pub. L. 110–234 and Pub. L. 110–246 enacted identical sections. Pub. L. 110–234 was repealed by section 4(a) of Pub. L. 110–246.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date ####

Section effective on the first day of the first fiscal year beginning after June 18, 2008, see section 14217(d) of Pub. L. 110–246, set out as a note under section 15101 of this title.

### **CHAPTER 157—ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ####

Sec.
15701.Consent of States.
15702.Distressed counties and areas.
15703.Counties eligible for assistance in more than one region.
15704.Inspector General; records.
15705.Biannual meetings of representatives of all Commissions.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—DESIGNATION OF REGIONS ####

15731.Southeast Crescent Regional Commission.
15732.Southwest Border Regional Commission.
15733.Northern Border Regional Commission.
15734.Great Lakes Authority.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS ####

15751.Authorization of appropriations.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2022**—Pub. L. 117–328, div. O, title IV, §401(b)(2), Dec. 29, 2022, 136 Stat. 5228, which directed amendment of the analysis for subchapter II of this chapter by adding item 15734 at the end, was executed by adding item 15734 to the analysis for this chapter to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–334, title VI, §6304(g), Dec. 20, 2018, 132 Stat. 4752, renumbered chapter 4 of subtitle V of this title as chapter 157 of this title.

### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ###

