
### §1544. Annual cost analysis by Fish and Wildlife Service ###

§1544. Annual cost analysis by Fish and Wildlife Service

Notwithstanding section 3003 of Public Law 104–66 (31 U.S.C. 1113 note; 109 Stat. 734), on or before January 15, 1990, and each January 15 thereafter, the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Fish and Wildlife Service, shall submit to the Congress an annual report covering the preceding fiscal year which shall contain—

(1) an accounting on a species by species basis of all reasonably identifiable Federal expenditures made primarily for the conservation of endangered or threatened species pursuant to this chapter; and

(2) an accounting on a species by species basis of all reasonably identifiable expenditures made primarily for the conservation of endangered or threatened species pursuant to this chapter by States receiving grants under section 1535 of this title.

(Pub. L. 93–205, §18, as added Pub. L. 100–478, title I, §1012, Oct. 7, 1988, 102 Stat. 2314; amended Pub. L. 106–201, §1(a), May 18, 2000, 114 Stat. 307.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original "this Act", meaning Pub. L. 93–205, Dec. 28, 1973, 81 Stat. 884, known as the Endangered Species Act of 1973, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1531 of this title and Tables.

#### Amendments ####

**2000**—Pub. L. 106–201, in introductory provisions, substituted "Notwithstanding section 3003 of Public Law 104–66 (31 U.S.C. 1113 note; 109 Stat. 734), on" for "On".

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date of 2000 Amendment ####

Pub. L. 106–201, §1(b), May 18, 2000, 114 Stat. 307, provided that: "The amendment made by this section [amending this section] takes effect on the earlier of—

"(1) the date of enactment of this Act [May 18, 2000]; or

"(2) December 19, 1999."

### **CHAPTER 36—FOREST AND RANGELAND RENEWABLE RESOURCES PLANNING** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—PLANNING ####

Sec.
1600.Congressional findings.
1601.Renewable Resource Assessment.
1602.Renewable Resource Program; preparation by Secretary and transmittal to President; purpose and development of program; time of preparation, updating and contents.
1603.National Forest System resource inventories; development, maintenance, and updating by Secretary as part of Assessment.
1604.National Forest System land and resource management plans.
1605.Protection, use and management of renewable resources on non-Federal lands; utilization of Assessment, surveys and Program by Secretary to assist States, etc.
1606.Budget requests by President for Forest Service activities.
1606a.Reforestation Trust Fund.
1607.National Forest System renewable resources; development and administration by Secretary in accordance with multiple use and sustained yield concepts for products and services; target year for operational posture of resources; budget requests.
1608.National Forest Transportation System.
1609.National Forest System.
1610.Implementation of provisions by Secretary; utilization of information and data of other organizations; avoidance of duplication of planning, etc.; "renewable resources" defined.
1611.Timber.
1612.Public participation.
1613.Promulgation of regulations.
1614.Severability.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—RESEARCH ####

1641.Findings and purpose.
1642.Investigations, experiments, tests, and other activities.
1643.Implementation of provisions.
1644.Forestry and rangeland competitive research grants.
1645.General provisions.
1646.Authorization of appropriations.
1647.Other Federal programs.
1648, 1649. Repealed.
1649a.Repealed.
1650.Hardwood technology transfer and applied research.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—EXTENSION PROGRAMS ####

1671.Congressional statement of findings.
1672.General program authorization.
1673.State programs.
1674.Renewable Resources Extension Program plan.
1674a.Expanded programs.
1674b.Sustainable Forestry Outreach Initiative.
1675.Authorization of appropriations; criteria for eligibility of States for funds.
1676.Issuance of rules and regulations for implementation of provisions and coordination with agricultural, research, extension, and teaching provisions.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—WOOD RESIDUE UTILIZATION ####

1681.Congressional statement of purpose.
1682.Pilot projects and demonstrations.
1683.Pilot projects; requirements; residue removal credits as compensation; implementation guidelines.
1684.Annual reports.
1685.Regulations.
1686.Definitions.
1687.Authorization of appropriations.

### SUBCHAPTER I—PLANNING ###

