
### §9141. Authorization for judicial training on international parental child abduction ###

§9141. Authorization for judicial training on international parental child abduction

#### (a) In general ####

The Secretary of State, subject to the availability of appropriations, shall seek to provide training, directly or through another government agency or nongovernmental organizations, on the effective handling of parental abduction cases to the judicial and administrative authorities in countries—

(1) in which a significant number of unresolved abduction cases are pending; or

(2) that have been designated as having a pattern of noncompliance under section 9122(b) of this title.

#### (b) Strategy requirement ####

Not later than 180 days after August 8, 2014, the President shall submit a strategy to carry out the activities described in subsection (a) to—

(1) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate;

(2) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives;

(3) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and

(4) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.

#### (c) Authorization of appropriations ####

#### (1) In general ####

There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of State $1,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2015 and 2016 to carry out subsection (a).

#### (2) Use of funds ####

Amounts appropriated for the activities set forth in subsection (a) shall be used pursuant to the authorization and requirements under this section.

(Pub. L. 113–150, title III, §302, Aug. 8, 2014, 128 Stat. 1822.)

#### **Executive Documents** ####

#### Delegation of Authority Pursuant to Section 302(b) of the Sean and David Goldman International Child Abduction Prevention and Return Act of 2014 ####

Memorandum of President of the United States, May 7, 2015, 80 F.R. 32849, provided:

Memorandum for the Secretary of State

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 301 of title 3, United States Code, I hereby delegate the functions and authorities vested in the President by section 302(b) of the Sean and David Goldman International Child Abduction Prevention and Return Act of 2014 (Public Law 113–150) (the "Act"), to the Secretary of State.

Any reference in this memorandum to the Act shall be deemed to be a reference to any future act that is the same or substantially the same as such provision.

You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the Federal Register.

Barack Obama.

### **CHAPTER 99—NORTH KOREA SANCTIONS AND POLICY ENHANCEMENT** ###

Sec.
9201.Findings; purposes.
9202.Definitions.
9203.Strategy on North Korea.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—INVESTIGATIONS, PROHIBITED CONDUCT, AND PENALTIES ####

9211.Statement of policy.
9212.Investigations.
9213.Reporting requirements.
9214.Designation of persons.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—SANCTIONS AGAINST NORTH KOREAN PROLIFERATION, HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES, AND ILLICIT ACTIVITIES ####

9221.Determinations with respect to North Korea as a jurisdiction of primary money laundering concern.
9221a.Prohibition on indirect correspondent accounts.
9221b.Sanctions with respect to foreign financial institutions that provide financial services to certain sanctioned persons.
9221c.Prohibition on transactions with certain sanctioned persons by persons owned or controlled by United States financial institutions.
9222.Ensuring the consistent enforcement of United Nations Security Council resolutions and financial restrictions on North Korea.
9223.Proliferation prevention sanctions.
9224.Procurement sanctions.
9225.Enhanced inspection authorities.
9226.Travel sanctions.
9227.Travel recommendations for United States citizens to North Korea.
9228.Exemptions, waivers, and removals of designation.
9229.Report on and imposition of sanctions to address persons responsible for knowingly engaging in significant activities undermining cybersecurity.
9230.Codification of sanctions with respect to North Korean activities undermining cybersecurity.
9231.Sense of Congress on trilateral cooperation between the United States, South Korea, and Japan.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—PROMOTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS ####

9241.Strategy to promote North Korean human rights.
9241a.Rebuttable presumption applicable to goods made with North Korean labor.
9241b.Sanctions on foreign persons employing North Korean labor.
9242.Report on North Korean prison camps.
9243.Report on and imposition of sanctions with respect to serious human rights abuses or censorship in North Korea.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—GENERAL AUTHORITIES ####

9251.Suspension of sanctions and other measures.
9252.Termination of sanctions and other measures.
9253.Repealed.
9254.Rulemaking.
9255.Authority to consolidate reports.
#### SUBCHAPTER V—AUTHORITIES AND REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO EXPANDED SANCTIONS ####

9261.Definitions.

#### Part I—Congressional Review and Oversight ####

9265.Notification of termination or suspension of sanctions.
9265a.Reports on certain licensing actions.
#### Part II—General Matters ####

9269.Rulemaking.
9269a.Authority to consolidate reports.
9269b.Waivers, exemptions, and termination.
9269c.Procedures for review of classified and certain other information.
9269d.Exception relating to importation of goods.

