
### §132. Controlling law; effect on other agencies ###

§132. Controlling law; effect on other agencies

To the extent that the provisions of this subchapter or subchapter IV of this chapter conflict with any other provision of this title or other law, pertaining to the Secretary of the Department of Commerce, the provisions of this title shall control; but nothing in this title shall be deemed to revoke or impair the authority of any other Federal agency with respect to the collection or release of information.

(Aug. 31, 1954, ch. 1158, 68 Stat. 1019.)

#### Historical and Revision Notes ####

Based on title 13, U.S.C., 1952 ed., §123 (June 19, 1948, ch. 502, §3, 62 Stat. 479).

Section was derived from all of section 123 of title 13, U.S.C., 1952 ed., except the first sentence. That sentence is incorporated with other provisions in chapter 1 of this title. See Distribution Table.

The reference "Secretary or Department of Commerce" was substituted for reference to the Bureau of the Census to conform with 1950 Reorganization Plan No. 5, §§1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, 64 Stat. 1263. See Revision Note to section 4 of this title.

Changes were made in phraseology.

### SUBCHAPTER II—POPULATION, HOUSING, AND UNEMPLOYMENT ###

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**1997**—Pub. L. 105–113, §3(b)(1), Nov. 21, 1997, 111 Stat. 2275, substituted "POPULATION, HOUSING, AND UNEMPLOYMENT" for "POPULATION, HOUSING, AGRICULTURE, IRRIGATION,, AND UNEMPLOYMENT".

**1986**—Pub. L. 99–544, §1(b), Oct. 27, 1986, 100 Stat. 3046, struck out "DRAINAGE" after "IRRIGATION,".

