
### §3597. Reemployment following limited appointment in the Foreign Service ###

§3597. Reemployment following limited appointment in the Foreign Service

An employee of any agency who accepts, with the consent of the head of that agency, a limited appointment in the Foreign Service under section 309 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 is entitled, upon the expiration of that appointment, to be reemployed in that employee's former position or in a corresponding or higher position in that agency. Upon reemployment under this section, an employee shall be entitled to any within-grade increases in pay which the employee would have received if the employee had remained in the former position in the agency.

(Added Pub. L. 96–465, title II, §2301(a), Oct. 17, 1980, 94 Stat. 2164.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

Section 309 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980, referred to in text, is classified to section 3949 of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date ####

Section effective Feb. 15, 1981, except as otherwise provided, see section 2403 of Pub. L. 96–465, set out as a note under section 3901 of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse.

### SUBCHAPTER VII—RETENTION OF RETIRED SPECIALIZED EMPLOYEES AT THE FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION ###

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

Pub. L. 108–447, div. B, title I, §114(a), Dec. 8, 2004, 118 Stat. 2869, and Pub. L. 108–458, title II, §2004(a), Dec. 17, 2004, 118 Stat. 3704, amended chapter identically adding subchapter VII heading.

