
### §1611. Illegal sales of uncertified seed ###

§1611. Illegal sales of uncertified seed

It shall be unlawful in the United States or in interstate or foreign commerce to sell or offer for sale or advertise, by variety name, seed not certified by an official seed certifying agency, when it is a variety for which a certificate of plant variety protection under the Plant Variety Protection Act [7 U.S.C. 2321 et seq.] specifies sale only as a class of certified seed: *Provided*, That seed from a certified lot may be labeled as to variety name when used in a mixture by, or with the approval of, the owners of the variety.

(Aug. 9, 1939, ch. 615, title V, §501, as added Pub. L. 91–577, title III, §142(a), Dec. 24, 1970, 84 Stat. 1558; amended Pub. L. 97–98, title XI, §1118, Dec. 22, 1981, 95 Stat. 1272.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

The Plant Variety Protection Act, referred to in text, is Pub. L. 91–577, Dec. 24, 1970, 84 Stat. 1542, which is classified principally to chapter 57 (§2321 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 2321 of this title and Tables.

#### Amendments ####

**1981**—Pub. L. 97–98 substituted "sell or offer for sale or advertise, by variety name, seed" for "sell by variety name seed", "certifying agency, when" for "certifying agency when", and "owners of the variety" for "owner of the variety".

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date of 1981 Amendment ####

Amendment by Pub. L. 97–98 effective Dec. 22, 1981, see section 1801 of Pub. L. 97–98, set out as an Effective Date note under section 4301 of this title.

#### Effective Date ####

Section effective Dec. 24, 1970, see section 141 of Pub. L. 91–577, set out as a note under section 2321 of this title.

### **CHAPTER 38—DISTRIBUTION AND MARKETING OF AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ####

Sec.
1621.Congressional declaration of purpose; use of existing facilities; cooperation with States.
1622.Duties of Secretary relating to agricultural products.
1622a.Authority to assist farmers and elevator operators.
1622b.Specialty crops market news allocation.
1622c.Repealed.
1623.Authorization of appropriations; allotments to States.
1623a.Omitted.
1624.Cooperation with Government and State agencies, private research organizations, etc.; rules and regulations.
1625.Transfer and consolidation of functions, powers, bureaus, etc.
1626.Definitions.
1627.Appointment of personnel; compensation; employment of specialists.
1627a.Sheep production and marketing grant program.
1627b.National Sheep Industry Improvement Center.
1627c.Local agriculture market program.
1628.Repealed.
1629.Establishment of committees to assist in research and service programs.
1630.Omitted.
1631.Protection for purchasers of farm products.
1632.Repealed.
1632a.Agricultural marketing resource center pilot project.
1632b.Agriculture Innovation Center Demonstration Program.
1632c.Acer access and development program.
1632d.Dairy business innovation initiatives.
1632e.Cattle Contracts Library.
1633.Cooperation with State agencies in administration and enforcement of laws relating to marketing of agricultural products and control or eradication of plant and animal diseases and pests; coordination of administration of Federal and State laws.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—LIVESTOCK MANDATORY REPORTING ####

#### Part A—Purpose; Definitions ####

1635.Purpose.
1635a.Definitions.
#### Part B—Cattle Reporting ####

1635d.Definitions.
1635e.Mandatory reporting for live cattle.
1635f.Mandatory packer reporting of boxed beef sales.
#### Part C—Swine Reporting ####

1635i.Definitions.
1635j.Mandatory reporting for swine.
1635k.Mandatory reporting of wholesale pork cuts.
#### Part D—Lamb Reporting ####

1635m.Mandatory reporting for lambs.
#### Part E—Administration ####

1636.General provisions.
1636a.Unlawful acts.
1636b.Enforcement.
1636c.Fees.
1636d.Recordkeeping.
1636e.Voluntary reporting.
1636f.Publication of information on retail purchase prices for representative meat products.
1636g.Suspension authority regarding specific terms of price reporting requirements.
1636h.Federal preemption.
1636i.Termination of authority.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—DAIRY PRODUCT MANDATORY REPORTING ####

1637.Purpose.
1637a.Definitions.
1637b.Mandatory reporting for dairy products.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—COUNTRY OF ORIGIN LABELING ####

1638.Definitions.
1638a.Notice of country of origin.
1638b.Enforcement.
1638c.Regulations.
1638d.Applicability.
#### SUBCHAPTER V—NATIONAL BIOENGINEERED FOOD DISCLOSURE STANDARD ####

1639.Definitions.
1639a.Applicability.
1639b.Establishment of national bioengineered food disclosure standard.
1639c.Savings provisions.
#### SUBCHAPTER VI—LABELING OF CERTAIN FOOD ####

1639i.Federal preemption.
1639j.Exclusion from Federal preemption.
#### SUBCHAPTER VII—HEMP PRODUCTION ####

1639*o.*Definitions.
1639p.State and tribal plans.
1639q.Department of Agriculture.
1639r.Regulations and guidelines; effect on other law.
1639s.Authorization of appropriations.

### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ###

