
### §2138. Savings provision ###

§2138. Savings provision

A member who entered into an agreement under this chapter before July 1, 1985, shall continue to be eligible for educational assistance in accordance with the terms of such agreement and of this chapter as in effect before such date.

(Added Pub. L. 98–525, title VII, §705(a)(1), Oct. 19, 1984, 98 Stat. 2567.)

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date ####

Section effective July 1, 1985, applicable only to members of the Armed Forces who qualify for educational assistance under this chapter on or after such date, see section 705(b) of Pub. L. 98–525, set out as an Effective Date of 1984 Amendment note under section 16131 of this title.

### **CHAPTER 106A—EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE FOR PERSONS ENLISTING FOR ACTIVE DUTY** ###

Sec.
2141.Educational assistance program: establishment.
2142.Educational assistance program: eligibility.
2143.Educational assistance: amount.
2144.Subsistence allowance.
2145.Adjustments of amount of educational assistance and of subsistence allowance.
2146.Right of member upon subsequent reenlistment to lump-sum payment in lieu of educational assistance.
2147.Right of member after reenlisting to transfer entitlement to spouse or dependent children.
2148.Duration of entitlement.
2149.Applications for educational assistance.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2004**—Pub. L. 108–375, div. A, title V, §532(a)(1), Oct. 28, 2004, 118 Stat. 1896, renumbered chapter 107 of this title as this chapter.

