
### §9564. Progress reports ###

§9564. Progress reports

Not later than one year after December 20, 2019, and annually thereafter, the President shall submit to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on progress made in providing assistance for projects under section 9563 of this title that includes—

(1) a description of the energy infrastructure projects the United States has identified for such assistance; and

(2) for each such project—

(A) a description of the role of the United States in the project, including in early-stage project support and late-stage project support;

(B) the amount and form of any debt financing and insurance provided by the United States Government for the project;

(C) the amount and form of any early-stage project support; and

(D) an update on the progress made on the project as of the date of the report.

(Pub. L. 116–94, div. P, title XX, §2005, Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 3226.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

Section was enacted as part of the European Energy Security and Diversification Act of 2019, and also as part of the Further Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2020, and not as part of the Countering Russian Influence in Europe and Eurasia Act of 2017 which comprises this chapter.

### **CHAPTER 103—BETTER UTILIZATION OF INVESTMENTS LEADING TO DEVELOPMENT** ###

Sec.
9601.Definitions.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—ESTABLISHMENT ####

9611.Statement of policy.
9612.United States International Development Finance Corporation.
9613.Management of Corporation.
9614.Independent accountability mechanism.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—AUTHORITIES ####

9621.Authorities relating to provision of support.
9622.Terms and conditions.
9623.Payment of losses.
9624.Termination.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—ADMINISTRATIVE AND GENERAL PROVISIONS ####

9631.Operations.
9632.Corporate powers.
9633.Maximum contingent liability.
9634.Corporate funds.
9635.Coordination with other development agencies.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—MONITORING, EVALUATION, AND REPORTING ####

9651.Establishment of risk and audit committees.
9652.Performance measures, evaluation, and learning.
9653.Annual report.
9654.Publicly available project information.
9655.Engagement with investors.
9656.Notifications to be provided by the Corporation.
#### SUBCHAPTER V—CONDITIONS, RESTRICTIONS, AND PROHIBITIONS ####

9671.Limitations and preferences.
9672.Additionality and avoidance of market distortion.
9673.Prohibition on support in countries that support terrorism or violate human rights and with sanctioned persons.
9674.Applicability of certain provisions of law.
#### SUBCHAPTER VI—TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS ####

9681.Definitions.
9682.Reorganization plan.
9683.Transfer of functions.
9684.Termination of Overseas Private Investment Corporation and other superceded authorities.
9685.Transitional authorities.
9686.Savings provisions.
9687.Other terminations.
9688.Incidental transfers.
9689.Reference.

