
### §31505. Development of enhanced-use lease policy ###

§31505. Development of enhanced-use lease policy

(a) In General.—The Administrator shall develop an agency-wide enhanced-use lease policy that—

(1) is based upon sound business practices and lessons learned from the demonstration centers; and

(2) establishes controls and procedures to ensure accountability and protect the interests of the Government.

(b) Contents.—The policy required by subsection (a) shall include the following:

(1) Criteria for determining economic value.—Criteria for determining whether enhanced-use lease provides better economic value to the Government than other options, such as—

(A) Federal financing through appropriations; or

(B) sale of the property.

(2) Security and access.—Requirement for the identification of proposed physical and procedural changes needed to ensure security and restrict access to specified areas, coordination of proposed changes with existing site tenants, and development of estimated costs of such changes.

(3) Measures of effectiveness.—Measures of effectiveness for the enhanced-use lease program.

(4) Accounting controls.—Accounting controls and procedures to ensure accountability, such as an audit trail and documentation to readily support financial transactions.

(Pub. L. 111–314, §3, Dec. 18, 2010, 124 Stat. 3377.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 31505 | 42 U.S.C. 17829. | Pub. L. 110–422, title XI, §1117, Oct. 15, 2008, 122 Stat. 4813. |

## Subtitle IV—Aeronautics and Space Research and Education ##

### **CHAPTER 401—AERONAUTICS** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL ####

Sec.
40101.Definition of institution of higher education.
40102.Governmental interest in aeronautics research and development.
40103.Cooperation with other agencies on aeronautics activities.
40104.Cooperation among Mission Directorates.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—HIGH PRIORITY AERONAUTICS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS ####

40111.Fundamental research program.
40112.Research and technology programs.
40113.Airspace systems research.
40114.Aviation safety and security research.
40115.Aviation weather research.
40116.University-based Centers for Research on Aviation Training.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—SCHOLARSHIPS ####

40131.Aeronautics scholarships.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—DATA REQUESTS ####

40141.Aviation data requests.

### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL ###

