
### §14112. Dissemination of names of officers selected ###

§14112. Dissemination of names of officers selected

(a) Time for Dissemination.—The names of the officers recommended for promotion in the report of a selection board shall be disseminated to the armed force concerned as follows:

(1) In the case of officers recommended for promotion to a grade below brigadier general or rear admiral (lower half), such names may be disseminated upon, or at any time after, the transmittal of the report to the President.

(2) In the case of officers recommended for promotion to a grade above colonel or, in the case of the Navy, captain, such names may be disseminated upon, or at any time after, the approval of the report by the President.

(3) In the case of officers whose names have not been sooner disseminated, such names shall be promptly disseminated—

(A) upon confirmation of the promotion of the officers by the Senate (in the case of promotions required to be submitted to the Senate for confirmation); or

(B) upon the approval of the report by the President (in the case of promotions not required to be submitted to the Senate for confirmation).

(b) Names Not Disseminated.—A list of names of officers disseminated under subsection (a) may not include—

(1) any name removed by the President from the report of the selection board containing that name, if dissemination is under the authority of paragraph (2) or (3)(B) of that subsection; or

(2) the name of any officer whose promotion the Senate failed to confirm, if dissemination is under the authority of paragraph (3)(A) of that subsection.

(Added Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title XVI, §1611, Oct. 5, 1994, 108 Stat. 2930; amended Pub. L. 106–398, §1 [[div. A], title V, §503(b)], Oct. 30, 2000, 114 Stat. 1654, 1654A–101.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Prior Provisions ####

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in section 5898(d) of this title, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 103–337, §1629(b)(2).

#### Amendments ####

**2000**—Pub. L. 106–398 amended text generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: "Upon approval by the President of the report of a promotion board, the names of the officers recommended for promotion by the promotion board (other than any name removed by the President) may be disseminated to the armed force concerned. If those names have not been sooner disseminated, those names (other than the name of any officer whose promotion the Senate failed to confirm) shall be promptly disseminated to the armed force concerned upon confirmation by the Senate."

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date ####

Section effective Oct. 1, 1996, see section 1691(b)(1) of Pub. L. 103–337, set out as a note under section 10001 of this title.

### **CHAPTER 1405—PROMOTIONS** ###

Sec.
14301.Eligibility for consideration for promotion: general rules.
14302.Promotion zones.
14303.Eligibility for consideration for promotion: minimum years of service in grade.
14304.Eligibility for consideration for promotion: maximum years of service in grade.
14305.Establishment of promotion zones: mandatory consideration for promotion.
14306.Establishment of promotion zones: Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve running mate system.
14307.Number of officers to be recommended for promotion.
14308.Promotions: how made.
14309.Acceptance of promotion; oath of office.
14310.Removal of officers from a list of officers recommended for promotion.
14311.Delay of promotion: involuntary.
14312.Delay of promotion: voluntary.
14313.Authority to vacate promotions to grade of brigadier general or rear admiral (lower half).
14314.Army and Air Force commissioned officers: generals ceasing to occupy positions commensurate with grade; State adjutants general.
14315.Position vacancy promotions: Army and Air Force officers.
14316.Army National Guard and Air National Guard: appointment to and Federal recognition in a higher reserve grade after selection for promotion.
14317.Officers in transition to and from the active-status list or active-duty list.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2006**—Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title V, §515(b)(4)(I), Jan. 6, 2006, 119 Stat. 3235, substituted "Navy Reserve" for "Naval Reserve" in item 14306.

**1996**—Pub. L. 104–106, div. A, title XV, §1501(b)(24), Feb. 10, 1996, 110 Stat. 497, substituted "Number" for "Numbers" in item 14307, a semicolon for a colon in item 14309, and "State" for "state" in item 14314.

