
### §318. Transfer of surplus property; acceptance of voluntary services ###

§318. Transfer of surplus property; acceptance of voluntary services

(a) The Director of the Government Publishing Office may—

(1) transfer or donate surplus Government publications and condemned Government Publishing Office machinery, material, equipment, and supplies to—

(A) other Federal entities;

(B) any organization described under section 501(c)(3) or (4) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from taxation under 501(a) of such Code; or

(C) State or local governments; and

(2) accept voluntary and uncompensated services, notwithstanding section 1342 of title 31.

(b) Individuals providing voluntary and uncompensated services under subsection (a)(2) shall not be considered Federal employees, except for purposes of chapter 81 of title 5 (relating to compensation for work injuries) and chapter 171 of title 28 (relating to tort claims).

(Added Pub. L. 108–83, title I, §1302(a), Sept. 30, 2003, 117 Stat. 1033; amended Pub. L. 113–235, div. H, title I, §1301(b), (c)(1), Dec. 16, 2014, 128 Stat. 2537.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2014**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 113–235, §1301(c)(1), substituted "Director of the Government Publishing Office" for "Public Printer" in introductory provisions.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Change of Name ####

"Government Publishing Office" substituted for "Government Printing Office" in subsec. (a)(1) on authority of section 1301(b) of Pub. L. 113–235, set out as a note preceding section 301 of this title.

### **CHAPTER 5—PRODUCTION AND PROCUREMENT OF PRINTING AND BINDING** ###

Sec.
501.Government printing, binding, and blank-book work to be done at Government Publishing Office.
502.Procurement of printing, binding, and blank-book work by Director of the Government Publishing Office.
503.Printing in veterans' hospitals.
504.Direct purchase of printing, binding, and blank-book work by Government agencies.
505.Sale of duplicate plates.
506.Time for printing documents or reports which include illustrations or maps.
507.Orders for printing to be acted upon within one year.
508.Annual estimates of quantity of paper required for public printing and binding.
509.Standards of paper; advertisements for proposals; samples.
510.Specifications in advertisements for paper.
511.Opening bids; bonds.
512.Approval of paper contracts; time for performance; bonds.
513.Comparison of paper and envelopes with standard quality.
514.Determination of quality of paper.
515.Default of contractor; new contracts and purchase in open market.
516.Liability of defaulting contractor.
517.Purchase of paper in open market.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2014**—Pub. L. 113–235, div. H, title I, §1301(c)(1), Dec. 16, 2014, 128 Stat. 2537, substituted "Director of the Government Publishing Office" for "Public Printer" in item 502.

**1976**—Pub. L. 94–553, §105(a)(2), Oct. 19, 1976, 90 Stat. 2599, struck out "; copyright" after "plates" in item 505.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Change of Name ####

"Government Publishing Office" substituted for "Government Printing Office" in item 501 on authority of section 1301(b) of Pub. L. 113–235, div. H, title I, Dec. 16, 2014, 128 Stat. 2537, set out as a note preceding section 301 of this title.

#### Federal Records Management Provisions Without Effect on Chapter ####

Authority and responsibilities under chapter not limited or repealed by Federal Records Management Amendments of 1976, see section 5(b) of Pub. L. 94–575, set out as a note under section 2901 of this title.

