
### §30707. Criminal penalty ###

§30707. Criminal penalty

(a) In General.—A carrier that violates this chapter shall be fined under title 18.

(b) Lien.—The amount of the fine and costs for the violation constitute a lien on the vessel engaged in the carriage. A civil action in rem to enforce the lien may be brought in the district court of the United States for any district in which the vessel is found.

(c) Disposition of Fine.—Half of the fine shall go to the person injured by the violation and half to the United States Government.

(Pub. L. 109–304, §6(c), Oct. 6, 2006, 120 Stat. 1517.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 30707 | 46 App.:194. | Feb. 13, 1893, ch. 105, §5, 27 Stat. 446. |

In subsection (a), the words "and who refuses to issue on demand the bill of lading herein provided for" are omitted as unnecessary. The words "shall be fined under title 18" are substituted for "shall be liable to a fine not exceeding $2,000" because of chapter 227 of title 18.

In subsection (b), the words "A civil action in rem to enforce the lien may be brought in the district court of the United States for any district in which the vessel is found" are substituted for "such vessel may be libeled therefor in any district court of the United States" for clarity and to modernize the language.

### **CHAPTER 309—SUITS IN ADMIRALTY AGAINST THE UNITED STATES** ###

Sec.
30901.Short title.
30902.Definition.
30903.Waiver of immunity.
30904.Exclusive remedy.
30905.Period for bringing action.
30906.Venue.
30907.Procedure for hearing and determination.
30908.Exemption from arrest or seizure.
30909.Security.
30910.Exoneration and limitation.
30911.Costs and interest.
30912.Arbitration, compromise, or settlement.
30913.Payment of judgment or settlement.
30914.Release of privately owned vessel after arrest or attachment.
30915.Seizures and other proceedings in foreign jurisdictions.
30916.Recovery by the United States for salvage services.
30917.Disposition of amounts recovered by the United States.
30918.Reports.

