
### §20003. Members: minimum service requirement as applied to Space Force ###

§20003. Members: minimum service requirement as applied to Space Force

(a) Inapplicability of Active/reserve Service Distinction.—In applying section 651 of this title to a person who becomes a member of the Space Force, the provisions of the second sentence of subsection (a) and of subsection (b) of that section (relating to service in a reserve component) are inapplicable.

(b) Treatment Upon Transfer Out of Space Force.—A member of the Space Force who transfers to one of the other armed forces before completing the service required by subsection (a) of section 651 of this title shall upon such transfer be subject to section 651 of this title in the same manner as if such member had initially entered the armed force to which the member transfers.

(Added Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVII, §1714, Dec. 22, 2023, 137 Stat. 626.)

### **CHAPTER 2003—STATUS AND PARTICIPATION** ###

Sec.
20101.Members in Space Force active status: amount of annual training or active duty service required.
20102.Individual ready guardians: designation; mobilization category.
20103.Members not on sustained duty: agreements concerning conditions of service.
20104.Orders to active duty: with consent of member.
20105.Sustained duty.
20106.Orders to active duty: without consent of member.
20107.Transfer to inactive status: initial service obligation not complete.
20108.Members of Space Force: credit for service for purposes of laws providing pay and benefits for members, dependents, and survivors.
20109.Policy for order to active duty based upon determination by Congress.

