
### §2779. Transportation to and from certain places of employment ###

§2779. Transportation to and from certain places of employment

(a) Whenever the Secretary determines that it is necessary for the effective conduct of the affairs of the Coast Guard, he may, at reasonable rates of fare fixed under regulations to be prescribed by him, provide assured and adequate transportation by motor vehicle or water carrier to and from their places of employment for individuals attached to, or employed by, the Coast Guard; and during a war or during a national emergency declared by Congress or the President, for individuals attached to, or employed in, a private plant that is manufacturing material for the Coast Guard.

(b) Transportation may not be provided under subsection (a) unless the Secretary or an officer designated by the Secretary, determines that—

(1) other transportation facilities are inadequate and cannot be made adequate;

(2) a reasonable effort has been made to induce operators of private facilities to provide the necessary transportation; and

(3) the service to be furnished will make proper use of transportation facilities and will supply the most efficient transportation to the individuals concerned.

(c) To provide transportation under subsection (a), the Secretary may—

(1) buy, lease, or charter motor vehicles or water carriers having a seating capacity of 12 or more passengers;

(2) maintain and operate that equipment by enlisted members or employees of the Coast Guard, or by private individuals under contract; and

(3) lease or charter the equipment to private or public carriers for operation under terms that are considered necessary by the Secretary or by an officer designated by the Secretary, and that may provide for the pooling of government-owned and privately owned equipment and facilities and for the reciprocal use of that equipment.

(d) Fares received under subsection (a), and proceeds of the leasing or chartering of equipment under subsection (c)(3), shall be covered into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.

(Added Pub. L. 96–376, §10(a), Oct. 3, 1980, 94 Stat. 1510, §660; amended Pub. L. 99–145, title XVI, §1623, Nov. 8, 1985, 99 Stat. 778; Pub. L. 99–550, §2(e), Oct. 27, 1986, 100 Stat. 3070; renumbered §2779, Pub. L. 115–282, title I, §116(b), Dec. 4, 2018, 132 Stat. 4226; Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXV [LXXXV], §8505(a)(46), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4750.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2021**—Subsecs. (a), (b)(3), (c)(2). Pub. L. 116–283 substituted "individuals" for "persons" wherever appearing.

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–282 renumbered section 660 of this title as this section.

**1986**—Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 99–550 struck out subsec. (e) which provided that passenger motor vehicles of the United States could be used to provide transportation between the residence and place of work of the Commandant. See section 1344 of Title 31, Money and Finance.

**1985**—Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 99–145 added subsec. (e).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date of 1985 Amendment ####

Pub. L. 99–145, title XVI, §1623, Nov. 8, 1985, 99 Stat. 778, provided that the amendment made by that section is effective Oct. 1, 1985.

### **CHAPTER 29—COAST GUARD FAMILY SUPPORT, CHILD CARE, AND HOUSING** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—COAST GUARD FAMILIES ####

Sec.
2901.Work-life policies and programs.
2902.Surveys of Coast Guard families.
2903.Reimbursement for adoption expenses.
2904.Education and training opportunities for Coast Guard spouses.
2905.Youth sponsorship initiatives.
2906.Dependent school children.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—COAST GUARD CHILD CARE ####

2921.Definitions.
2922.Child development services.
2923.Child development center standards and inspections.
2924.Child development center employees.
2925.Parent partnerships with child development centers.
2926.Family child care providers.
2927.Child care subsidy program.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—HOUSING ####

2941.Definitions.
2942.General authority.
2943.Leasing and hiring of quarters; rental of inadequate housing.
2944.Retired service members and dependents serving on advisory committees.
2945.Conveyance of real property.
2946.Coast Guard Housing Fund.
2947.Reports.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Prior Provisions ####

A prior analysis for chapter 29 "REPORTS" consisted of items 2901 "Transmission of annual Coast Guard authorization request", 2902 "Capital investment plan", 2903 "Major acquisitions", 2904 "Manpower requirements plan", 2905 "Annual performance report", and 2906 "Major acquisition program risk assessment", prior to repeal by Pub. L. 115–282, title I, §117(a), Dec. 4, 2018, 132 Stat. 4229.

#### Amendments ####

**2022**—Pub. L. 117–263, div. K, title CXIV, §11401(c)(1)(B), Dec. 23, 2022, 136 Stat. 4108, added item 2927.

**2021**—Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXII [LXXXII], §8237(b)(2), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4665, which directed amendment of the analysis for this chapter by adding item 2926 "at the end", was executed by adding the item after item 2925, which item was at the end of the items for subchapter II of this chapter, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–282, title I, §117(a), Dec. 4, 2018, 132 Stat. 4230, inserted chapter 29 designation and heading and added items 2901 to 2947.

### SUBCHAPTER I—COAST GUARD FAMILIES ###

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–282, title I, §117(c)(1), Dec. 4, 2018, 132 Stat. 4231, inserted subchapter I designation and heading.

