
### §20107. Definitions ###

§20107. Definitions

As used in this chapter, the term—

(1) "accessible" means accessible to handicapped and elderly individuals for the purpose of voting or registration, as determined under guidelines established by the chief election officer of the State involved;

(2) "elderly" means 65 years of age or older;

(3) "Federal election" means a general, special, primary, or runoff election for the office of President or Vice President, or of Senator or Representative in, or Delegate or Resident Commissioner to, the Congress;

(4) "handicapped" means having a temporary or permanent physical disability; and

(5) "State" means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and any territory or possesssion [1](#20107_1_target) of the United States.

(Pub. L. 98–435, §8, Sept. 28, 1984, 98 Stat. 1679.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

Section was formerly classified to section 1973ee–6 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date ####

Section applicable with respect to elections taking place after Dec. 31, 1985, see section 9 of Pub. L. 98–435, set out as a note under section 20101 of this title.

[1 So in original. Probably should be "possession".](#20107_1)

### **CHAPTER 203—REGISTRATION AND VOTING BY ABSENT UNIFORMED SERVICES VOTERS AND OVERSEAS VOTERS IN ELECTIONS FOR FEDERAL OFFICE** ###

Sec.
20301.Federal responsibilities.
20301a.Duties of Secretary under Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act.
20302.State responsibilities.
20303.Federal write-in absentee ballot in general elections for Federal office for absent uniformed services voters and overseas voters.
20304.Procedures for collection and delivery of marked absentee ballots of absent overseas uniformed services voters.
20305.Federal Voting Assistance Program Improvements.
20306.Prohibition of refusal of applications on grounds of early submission.
20307.Enforcement.
20308.Reporting requirements.
20309.Effect on certain other laws.
20310.Definitions.
20311.Technology pilot program.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Prior Provisions ####

Provisions similar to this chapter were contained in subchapters I–D and I–E (1973cc et seq. and 1973dd et seq.) of chapter 20 of title 42 prior to repeal by Pub. L. 99–410 and then in subchapter I–G (1973ff et seq.) of chapter 20 of title 42 prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this chapter.

