
### §4014. Testing for human immunodeficiency virus ###

§4014. Testing for human immunodeficiency virus

(a) The Attorney General shall cause each individual convicted of a Federal offense who is sentenced to incarceration for a period of 6 months or more to be tested for the presence of the human immunodeficiency virus, as appropriate, after the commencement of that incarceration, if such individual is determined to be at risk for infection with such virus in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Bureau of Prisons relating to infectious disease management.

(b) If the Attorney General has a well-founded reason to believe that a person sentenced to a term of imprisonment for a Federal offense, or ordered detained before trial under section 3142(e), may have intentionally or unintentionally transmitted the human immunodeficiency virus to any officer or employee of the United States, or to any person lawfully present in a correctional facility who is not incarcerated there, the Attorney General shall—

(1) cause the person who may have transmitted the virus to be tested promptly for the presence of such virus and communicate the test results to the person tested; and

(2) consistent with the guidelines issued by the Bureau of Prisons relating to infectious disease management, inform any person (in, as appropriate, confidential consultation with the person's physician) who may have been exposed to such virus, of the potential risk involved and, if warranted by the circumstances, that prophylactic or other treatment should be considered.

(c) If the results of a test under subsection (a) or (b) indicate the presence of the human immunodeficiency virus, the Attorney General shall provide appropriate access for counselling, health care, and support services to the affected officer, employee, or other person, and to the person tested.

(d) The results of a test under this section are inadmissible against the person tested in any Federal or State civil or criminal case or proceeding.

(e) Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this section, the Attorney General shall issue rules to implement this section. Such rules shall require that the results of any test are communicated only to the person tested, and, if the results of the test indicate the presence of the virus, to correctional facility personnel consistent with guidelines issued by the Bureau of Prisons. Such rules shall also provide for procedures designed to protect the privacy of a person requesting that the test be performed and the privacy of the person tested.

(Added Pub. L. 105–370, §2(a), Nov. 12, 1998, 112 Stat. 3374.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

The date of the enactment of this section, referred to in subsec. (e), is the date of enactment of Pub. L. 105–370, which was approved Nov. 12, 1998.

### **CHAPTER 303—BUREAU OF PRISONS** ###

Sec.
4041.Bureau of Prisons; director and employees.
4042.Duties of Bureau of Prisons.
4043.Acceptance of gifts and bequests to the Commissary Funds, Federal Prisons.
4044.Donations on behalf of the Bureau of Prisons.
4045.Authority to conduct autopsies.
4046.Shock incarceration program.
4047.Prison impact assessments.
4048.Fees for health care services for prisoners.
4049.Officers and employees of the Bureau of Prisons authorized to carry oleoresin capsicum spray.
4050.Secure firearms storage.
4051.Treatment of primary caretaker parents and other individuals.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2022**—Pub. L. 117–103, div. W, title X, §1001(e), Mar. 15, 2022, 136 Stat. 914, added item 4051.

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–391, title II, §202(b), Dec. 21, 2018, 132 Stat. 5217, added item 4050.

**2016**—Pub. L. 114–133, §2(b), Mar. 9, 2016, 130 Stat. 297, added item 4049.

**2000**—Pub. L. 106–294, §2(b), Oct. 12, 2000, 114 Stat. 1040, added item 4048.

**1994**—Pub. L. 103–322, title II, §20402(b), Sept. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 1825, added item 4047.

**1990**—Pub. L. 101–647, title XXX, §3001(b), Nov. 29, 1990, 104 Stat. 4915, added item 4046.

**1986**—Pub. L. 99–646, §67(b), Nov. 10, 1986, 100 Stat. 3616, added items 4044 and 4045.

**1982**—Pub. L. 97–258, §2(d)(4)(A), Sept. 13, 1982, 96 Stat. 1059, added item 4043.

