
### §785. Enforcement of law prohibiting taking of sponges of specified sizes; employment of Coast Guard vessels and Customs Service employees ###

§785. Enforcement of law prohibiting taking of sponges of specified sizes; employment of Coast Guard vessels and Customs Service employees

The Secretary of Commerce shall enforce the provisions of this chapter, and he is authorized to empower such officers and employees of the Department of Commerce as he may designate, or such officers and employees of other departments as may be detailed for the purpose, to make arrests and seize vessels and sponges, and upon his request the Secretary of the Treasury may employ the vessels of the Coast Guard or the employees of the Customs Service to that end.

(Aug. 15, 1914, ch. 253, §5, 38 Stat. 692; Jan. 28, 1915, ch. 20, §1, 38 Stat. 800; 1939 Reorg. Plan No. II, §4(e), eff. July 1, 1939, 4 F.R. 2731, 53 Stat. 1431; Aug. 4, 1949, ch. 393, §§1, 20, 63 Stat. 495, 561; 1970 Reorg. Plan No. 4, eff. Oct. 3, 1970, 35 F.R. 15627, 84 Stat. 2090.)

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Transfer of Functions ####

For transfer of authorities, functions, personnel, and assets of the Coast Guard, including the authorities and functions of the Secretary of Transportation relating thereto, to the Department of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 468(b), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under section 542 of Title 6.

For transfer of functions, personnel, assets, and liabilities of the United States Customs Service of the Department of the Treasury, including functions of the Secretary of the Treasury relating thereto, to the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 203(1), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under section 542 of Title 6. For establishment of U.S. Customs and Border Protection in the Department of Homeland Security, treated as if included in Pub. L. 107–296 as of Nov. 25, 2002, see section 211 of Title 6, as amended generally by Pub. L. 114–125, and section 802(b) of Pub. L. 114–125, set out as a note under section 211 of Title 6.

"Coast Guard" substituted in text for "Revenue Cutter Service" on authority of act Jan. 28, 1915, which combined Revenue Cutter Service and Life-Saving Service to form Coast Guard. That act was repealed by section 20 of act Aug. 4, 1949, section 1 of which reestablished Coast Guard by enacting Title 14, Coast Guard.

Coast Guard transferred to Department of Transportation and all functions, powers, and duties, relating to Coast Guard, of Secretary of the Treasury and of other offices and officers of Department of the Treasury transferred to Secretary of Transportation by section 6(b)(1) of Pub. L. 89–670, Oct. 15, 1966, 80 Stat. 938. See section 108 of Title 49, Transportation.

#### **Executive Documents** ####

#### Transfer of Functions ####

"Secretary of Commerce" and "Department of Commerce" substituted in text for "Secretary of the Interior" and "Department of the Interior" in view of: creation of National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in Department of Commerce and Office of Administrator of such Administration; abolition of Bureau of Commercial Fisheries in Department of the Interior and Office of Director of such Bureau; transfers of functions, including functions formerly vested by law in Secretary of the Interior or Department of the Interior which were administered through Bureau of Commercial Fisheries or were primarily related to such Bureau, exclusive of certain enumerated functions with respect to Great Lakes fishery research, Missouri River Reservoir research, Gulf Breeze Biological Laboratory, and Trans-Alaska pipeline investigations; and transfer of marine sport fish program of Bureau of Sport Fisheries and Wildlife by Reorg. Plan No. 4 of 1970, eff. Oct. 3, 1970, 35 F.R. 15627, 84 Stat. 2090, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

For transfer of functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of Department of the Interior, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Interior, with power to delegate, see Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1950, §§1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, 64 Stat. 1262, set out in the Appendix to Title 5.

Functions of all officers of Department of the Treasury, and functions of all agencies and employees of such Department, transferred, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Treasury, with power vested in him to authorize their performance or performance of any of his functions, by any of such officers, agencies, and employees, by Reorg. Plan No. 26 of 1950, §§1, 2, eff. July 31, 1950, 15 F.R. 4935, 64 Stat. 1280, 1281, set out in the Appendix to Title 5. Customs Service, referred to in this section, was a service under Department of the Treasury, and Coast Guard, also referred to in this section, was generally a service under such Department, but such Plan excepted, from transfer, functions of Coast Guard, and of Commandant thereof, when Coast Guard was operating as a part of the Navy under former sections 1 and 3 (now 101 and 103) of Title 14, Coast Guard.

Reorg. Plan No. III of 1940, §3, eff. June 30, 1940, 5 F.R. 2108, 54 Stat. 1232, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, consolidated Bureau of Fisheries and Bureau of Biological Survey with their respective functions into one agency in Department of the Interior to be known as Fish and Wildlife Service, and provided that functions of the consolidated agency shall be administered under direction and supervision of Secretary of the Interior.

Reorg. Plan No. II of 1930, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, transferred Bureau of Fisheries in Department of Commerce and its functions to Department of the Interior, to be administered under direction and supervision of Secretary of the Interior.

### **CHAPTER 12—FEDERAL REGULATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF POWER** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—REGULATION OF THE DEVELOPMENT OF WATER POWER AND RESOURCES ####

Sec.
791.Repealed.
791a.Short title.
792.Federal Power Commission; creation; number; appointment; term; qualifications; vacancies; quorum; chairman; salary; place of holding sessions.
793.Appointment of officers and employees of Commission; duties, and salaries; detail of officers and employees from other departments; expenditures authorized.
793a to 795. Repealed or Omitted.
796.Definitions.
797.General powers of Commission.
797a.Congressional authorization for permits, licenses, leases, or authorizations for dams, conduits, reservoirs, etc., within national parks or monuments.
797b.Duty to keep Congress fully and currently informed.
797c.Dams in National Park System units.
797d.Third party contracting by FERC.
798.Purpose and scope of preliminary permits; transfer and cancellation.
799.License; duration, conditions, revocation, alteration, or surrender.
800.Issuance of preliminary permits or licenses.
801.Transfer of license; obligations of transferee.
802.Information to accompany application for license; landowner notification.
803.Conditions of license generally.
804.Project works affecting navigable waters; requirements insertable in license.
805.Participation by Government in costs of locks, etc.
806.Time limit for construction of project works; extension of time; termination or revocation of licenses for delay.
807.Right of Government to take over project works.
808.New licenses and renewals.
809.Temporary use by Government of project works for national safety; compensation for use.
810.Disposition of charges arising from licenses.
811.Operation of navigation facilities; rules and regulations; penalties.
812.Public-service licensee; regulations by State or by commission as to service, rates, charges, etc.
813.Power entering into interstate commerce; regulation of rates, charges, etc.
814.Exercise by licensee of power of eminent domain.
815.Contract to furnish power extending beyond period of license; obligations of new licensee.
816.Preservation of rights vested prior to June 10, 1920.
817.Projects not affecting navigable waters; necessity for Federal license, permit or right-of-way; unauthorized activities.
818.Public lands included in project; reservation of lands from entry.
819.Repealed.
820.Proceedings for revocation of license or to prevent violations of license.
821.State laws and water rights unaffected.
822.Reservation of right to alter or repeal chapter.
823.Repeal of inconsistent laws.
823a.Conduit hydroelectric facilities.
823b.Enforcement.
823c.Alaska State jurisdiction over small hydroelectric projects.
823d.Alternative conditions and prescriptions.
823e.Promoting hydropower development at existing nonpowered dams.
823f.Closed-loop pumped storage projects.
823g.Considerations for relicensing terms.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—REGULATION OF ELECTRIC UTILITY COMPANIES ENGAGED IN INTERSTATE COMMERCE ####

824.Declaration of policy; application of subchapter.
824a.Interconnection and coordination of facilities; emergencies; transmission to foreign countries.
824a–1.Pooling.
824a–2.Reliability.
824a–3.Cogeneration and small power production.
824a–4.Seasonal diversity electricity exchange.
824b.Disposition of property; consolidations; purchase of securities.
824c.Issuance of securities; assumption of liabilities.
824d.Rates and charges; schedules; suspension of new rates; automatic adjustment clauses.
824e.Power of Commission to fix rates and charges; determination of cost of production or transmission.
824f.Ordering furnishing of adequate service.
824g.Ascertainment of cost of property and depreciation.
824h.References to State boards by Commission.
824i.Interconnection authority.
824j.Wheeling authority.
824j–1.Open access by unregulated transmitting utilities.
824k.Orders requiring interconnection or wheeling.
824*l.*Information requirements.
824m.Sales by exempt wholesale generators.
824n.Repealed.
824*o.*Electric reliability.
824o–1.Critical electric infrastructure security.
824p.Siting of interstate electric transmission facilities.
824q.Native load service obligation.
824r.Protection of transmission contracts in the Pacific Northwest.
824s.Transmission infrastructure investment.
824s–1.Incentives for cybersecurity investments.
824t.Electricity market transparency rules.
824u.Prohibition on filing false information.
824v.Prohibition of energy market manipulation.
824w.Joint boards on economic dispatch.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—LICENSEES AND PUBLIC UTILITIES; PROCEDURAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS ####

825.Accounts and records.
825a.Rates of depreciation; notice to State authorities before fixing.
825b.Requirements applicable to agencies of United States.
825c.Periodic and special reports; obstructing filing reports or keeping accounts, etc.
825d.Officials dealing in securities.
825e.Complaints.
825f.Investigations by Commission.
825g.Hearings; rules of procedure.
825h.Administrative powers of Commission; rules, regulations, and orders.
825i.Appointment of officers and employees; compensation.
825j.Investigations relating to electric energy; reports to Congress.
825k.Publication and sale of reports.
825*l.*Review of orders.
825m.Enforcement provisions.
825n.Forfeiture for violations; recovery; applicability.
825*o.*Penalties for violations; applicability of section.
825o–1.Enforcement of certain provisions.
825p.Jurisdiction of offenses; enforcement of liabilities and duties.
825q.Repealed.
825q–1.Office of Public Participation.
825r.Separability.
825s.Sale of electric power from reservoir projects; rate schedules; preference in sale; construction of transmission lines; disposition of moneys.
825s–1.Southwestern area sale and transmission of electric power; disposition of receipts; creation of continuing fund; use of fund.
825s–2.Southeastern area sale and transmission of electric power; disposition of receipts; creation of continuing fund; use of fund.
825s–3.Southwestern area sale at uniform systemwide rates of electric power over transmission lines constructed with appropriated funds or used under contractual arrangements.
825s–4.Southwestern Power Administration; deposit and availability of advance payments.
825s–5.Southeastern Power Administration; deposit and availability of advance payments.
825s–6.Southeastern Power Administration; deposit and availability of discretionary offsetting collections.
825s–7.Southwestern Power Administration; deposit and availability of discretionary offsetting collections.
825s–8.Southeastern Power Administration: rates of basic and premium pay.
825t.Utilization of power revenues.
825u.Interest rate on power bonds held by Administrator of General Services.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—STATE AND MUNICIPAL WATER CONSERVATION FACILITIES ####

828.Facilitation of development and construction of water conservation facilities; exemption from certain Federal requirements.
828a.Definitions.
828b.Exemption from formula, books and records, and project cost statement requirements; annual charges.
828c.Applicability of this subchapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Findings ####

Pub. L. 113–23, §2, Aug. 9, 2013, 127 Stat. 493, provided that: "Congress finds that—

"(1) the hydropower industry currently employs approximately 300,000 workers across the United States;

"(2) hydropower is the largest source of clean, renewable electricity in the United States;

"(3) as of the date of enactment of this Act [Aug. 9, 2013], hydropower resources, including pumped storage facilities, provide—

"(A) nearly 7 percent of the electricity generated in the United States; and

"(B) approximately 100,000 megawatts of electric capacity in the United States;

"(4) only 3 percent of the 80,000 dams in the United States generate electricity, so there is substantial potential for adding hydropower generation to nonpowered dams; and

"(5) according to one study, by utilizing currently untapped resources, the United States could add approximately 60,000 megawatts of new hydropower capacity by 2025, which could create 700,000 new jobs over the next 13 years."

### SUBCHAPTER I—REGULATION OF THE DEVELOPMENT OF WATER POWER AND RESOURCES ###

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Codification; Construction ####

Act Aug. 26, 1935, ch. 687, title II, §212, 49 Stat. 847, provided that sections 1 to 29 of the Federal Water Power Act, as amended (sections 792, 793, 794 to 797, 798 to 818, 819, and 820 to 823 of this title) shall constitute part I of the act. Said section 212 also repealed sections 25 and 30 of the act (sections 819, 791 of this title). It also contained a proviso as follows: "That nothing in that Act, as amended, shall be construed to repeal or amend the provisions of the amendment to the Federal Water Power Act approved March 3, 1921 (41 Stat. 1353 [section 797a of this title]), or the provisions of any other Act relating to national parks and national monuments."

