
### §1599j. Restricted reports of incidents of adult sexual assault ###

§1599j. Restricted reports of incidents of adult sexual assault

(a) Restricted Reports.—The Secretary of Defense may provide a civilian employee of the Department of Defense an opportunity to submit to an individual described in subsection (d) a restricted report of an alleged incident of adult sexual assault for the purpose of assisting the employee in obtaining information and access to authorized victim support services provided by the Department.

(b) Restrictions on Disclosures and Initiating Investigations.—Unless the Secretary determines that a disclosure is necessary to prevent or mitigate a serious and imminent safety threat to the employee submitting the report or to another person, a restricted report submitted pursuant to subsection (a) shall not—

(1) be disclosed to the supervisor of the employee or any other management official; or

(2) cause the initiation of a Federal civil or criminal investigation.

(c) Duties Under Other Laws.—The receipt of a restricted report submitted under subsection (a) shall not be construed as imputing actual or constructive knowledge of an alleged incident of sexual assault to the Department of Defense for any purpose.

(d) Individuals Authorized to Receive Restricted Reports.—An individual described in this subsection is an individual who performs victim advocate duties under a program for one or more of the following purposes (or any other program designated by the Secretary):

(1) Sexual assault prevention and response.

(2) Victim advocacy.

(3) Equal employment opportunity.

(4) Workplace violence prevention and response.

(5) Employee assistance.

(6) Family advocacy.

(e) Definitions.—In this section:

(1) Civilian employee.—The term "civilian employee" has the meaning given the term "employee" in section 2105 of title 5.

(2) Sexual assault.—The term "sexual assault" has the meaning given that term in section 920 of this title (article 120 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), and includes penetrative offenses and sexual contact offenses.

(Added Pub. L. 117–263, div. A, title XI, §1101(a), Dec. 23, 2022, 136 Stat. 2815.)

### **CHAPTER 83—CIVILIAN DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE EMPLOYEES** ###

SubchapterSec.
I.Defense-Wide Intelligence Personnel Policy1601
II.Defense Intelligence Agency Personnel1621

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Prior Provisions ####

A prior chapter 85 of this title was repealed by Pub. L. 102–190, div. A, title X, §1061(a)(26)(C)(i), Dec. 5, 1991, 105 Stat. 1474, effective Oct. 1, 1993. Previously, the individual sections of that chapter, sections 1621 to 1624, were repealed by Pub. L. 101–510, div. A, title XII, §1207(c)(1), (3), (4), Nov. 5, 1990, 104 Stat. 1665.

#### Amendments ####

**1996**—Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title XVI, §1632(a)(3), Sept. 23, 1996, 110 Stat. 2745, substituted "CIVILIAN DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE EMPLOYEES" for "DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY AND CENTRAL IMAGERY OFFICE CIVILIAN PERSONNEL" as chapter heading and added subchapter analysis.

### SUBCHAPTER I—DEFENSE-WIDE INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL POLICY ###

Sec.
1601.Civilian intelligence personnel: general authority to establish excepted positions, appoint personnel, and fix rates of pay.
1602.Basic pay.
1603.Additional compensation, incentives, and allowances.
[1604.Repealed.]
1605.Benefits for certain employees assigned outside the United States.
1606.Defense Intelligence Senior Executive Service.
1607.Intelligence Senior Level positions.
1608.Time-limited appointments.
1609.Termination of defense intelligence employees.
1610.Reductions and other adjustments in force.
1611.Postemployment assistance: certain terminated intelligence employees.
1612.Merit system principles and civil service protections: applicability.
1613.Miscellaneous provisions.
1614.Definitions.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**1996**—Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title XVI, §1632(a)(3), Sept. 23, 1996, 110 Stat. 2745, added table of sections for subchapter and struck out former table of sections consisting of items 1601 "Defense Intelligence Senior Executive Service", 1602 "Defense Intelligence Agency merit pay system", 1603 "Limit on pay", 1604 "Civilian personnel management", 1605 "Benefits for certain employees of the Defense Intelligence Agency", 1606 "Uniform allowance: civilian employees", and 1608 "Financial assistance to certain employees in acquisition of critical skills".

**1994**—Pub. L. 103–359, title V, §501(b)(1)(A), Oct. 14, 1994, 108 Stat. 3428, amended chapter heading generally, inserting "AND CENTRAL IMAGERY OFFICE".

**1989**—Pub. L. 101–193, title V, §507(a)(2), Nov. 30, 1989, 103 Stat. 1710, added item 1608.

**1987**—Pub. L. 100–178, title VI, §601(b), Dec. 2, 1987, 101 Stat. 1015, added item 1606.

**1985**—Pub. L. 99–145, title XIII, §1302(a)(2), Nov. 8, 1985, 99 Stat. 737, redesignated item 192 of chapter 8 of this title as item 1605 and transferred it to this chapter.

**1984**—Pub. L. 98–618, title V, §501(b), Nov. 8, 1984, 98 Stat. 3302, added item 1604.

