
### §1749. Attaché educational program ###

§1749. Attaché educational program

The Administrator of the Foreign Agricultural Service shall establish a program within the Service that directs attachés of the Service who are reassigned from abroad to the United States, and other personnel of the Service, to visit and consult with producers and exporters of agricultural commodities and products and State officials throughout the United States concerning various methods to increase exports of United States agricultural commodities and products.

(Aug. 28, 1954, ch. 1041, title I, §109, as added Pub. L. 101–624, title XV, §1532, Nov. 28, 1990, 104 Stat. 3690; amended Pub. L. 102–237, title III, §316, Dec. 13, 1991, 105 Stat. 1856.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**1991**—Pub. L. 102–237, §316, made technical amendment to directory language of Pub. L. 101–624, §1532, which enacted this section, resulting in no change in text.

### **CHAPTER 43—FOREIGN MARKET DEVELOPMENT** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS; AGRICULTURAL COUNSELORS AND AGRICULTURAL ATTACHÉS ####

Sec.
1761.Foreign markets; collection of information.
1762.Personnel.
1763.Transferred.
1764.Reports and dispatches.
1765.Foreign service appropriations; applicability.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—UNITED STATES AGRICULTURAL TRADE OFFICES ####

1765a.Agricultural Trade Offices.
1765b.Functions.
1765b–1.Omitted.
1765c.Performance of functions in foreign localities.
1765d.Acquisition of property.
1765d–1.Repealed.
1765e.Location of offices.
1765f.Availability of agency services, personnel, and facilities.
1765g.Availability of reports and dispatches.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—REPRESENTATION ALLOWANCES, REGULATIONS, GENERAL PROVISIONS, AND AUTHORIZATION FOR APPROPRIATIONS ####

1765h.Representation allowance.
1766.Rules and regulations; advance payment for rent and other service; funds for courtesies to foreign representatives.
1766a.Presidential regulations.
1766b.Language training for families of officers and employees assigned abroad.
1766c.Allowances and benefits.
1767.Authorization of appropriations.
1768.Foreign Operations Administration unaffected.
1769."Agricultural commodity" defined.

### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS; AGRICULTURAL COUNSELORS AND AGRICULTURAL ATTACHÉS ###

