
### §§261 to 264. Omitted ###

§§261 to 264. Omitted

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

Sections 261 to 264 related to Freedmen's Hospital in the District of Columbia, and were also set out as sections 32–317 to 32–320 of the District of Columbia Code. Freedmen's Hospital was transferred to Howard University by Pub. L. 87–262, Sept. 21, 1961, 75 Stat. 542 (20 U.S.C. 124–129), section 7 of which repealed all laws specifically applicable to Freedmen's Hospital effective with the transfer. Sections 32–317 to 32–320 were omitted from the 1981 edition of the District of Columbia Code.

Section 261, R.S. §2038; act June 23, 1874, ch. 455, 18 Stat. 223, related to direction of and expenditures for Freedmen's Hospital.

Section 262, acts June 26, 1912, ch. 182, §1, 37 Stat. 172; May 29, 1928, ch. 901, §1(78), 45 Stat. 992, related to admission of patients to Freedmen's Hospital, charges, and disposition of money collected.

Section 263, acts Mar. 3, 1905, ch. 1483, 33 Stat. 1190, Mar. 16, 1926, ch. 58, 44 Stat. 208, related to authority to contract for the care and treatment of persons from the District admitted to Freedmen's Hospital.

Section 264, act July 1, 1916, ch. 209, 39 Stat. 311, related to disposition of unclaimed money left at Freedmen's Hospital by deceased patients.

### **CHAPTER 7—NATIONAL CEMETERIES** ###

Sec.
271 to 295. Repealed or Omitted.
295a.Arlington Memorial Amphitheater.
296.Repealed.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Change of Name ####

Director of National Parks, Buildings and Reservations renamed Director of National Park Service by act Mar. 2, 1934, ch. 38, 48 Stat. 362.

#### **Executive Documents** ####

#### Transfer of Functions ####

Section 2 of Ex. Ord. No. 6166, June 10, 1933, as amended by Ex. Ord. No. 6229, July 27, 1934; Ex. Ord. No. 6614, Feb. 26, 1934; Ex. Ord. No. 6690, Apr. 25, 1934, set out as a note to section 901 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, transferred all functions of administrator of certain historical national cemeteries located within the continental limits of the United States, including certain cemeteries administered by the War Department to the Director of National Parks, Buildings, and Reservations in the Department of the Interior.

By Ex. Ord. No. 6228, July 28, 1933, the operation of Executive Order No. 6166 as to the transfer of the specified national cemeteries was postponed until further order, except with regard to the following cemeteries located within the continental limits of the United States:

#### national military parks ####

Chickamauga and Chattanooga National Military Park, Georgia and Tennessee.

Fort Donelson National Military Park, Tennessee.

Fredericksburg and Spotsylvania County Battle Fields Memorial, Virginia.

Gettysburg National Military Park, Pennsylvania.

Guilford Courthouse National Military Park, North Carolina.

Kings Mountain National Military Park, South Carolina.

Moores Creek National Military Park, North Carolina.

Petersburg National Military Park, Virginia.

Shiloh National Military Park, Tennessee.

Stones River National Military Park, Tennessee.

Vicksburg National Military Park, Mississippi.

#### national parks ####

Abraham Lincoln National Park (now Abraham Lincoln Birthplace National Historical Park), Kentucky.

Fort McHenry National Park, Maryland.

#### battlefield sites ####

Antietam Battlefield, Maryland.

Appomattox, Virginia.

Brices Cross Roads, Mississippi.

Chalmette Monument and Grounds, Louisiana.

Cowpens, South Carolina.

Fort Necessity, Wharton County, Pennsylvania.

Kenesaw Mountain, Georgia.

Monocacy, Maryland.

Tupelo, Mississippi.

White Plains, New York.

#### national monuments ####

Big Hole Battlefield, Beaverhead County, Montana.

Cabrillo Monument, Ft. Rosecrans, California.

Castle Pinckney, Charleston, South Carolina.

Father Millet Cross, Fort Niagara, New York.

Fort Marion, St. Augustine, Florida.

Fort Matanzas, Florida.

Fort Pulaski, Georgia.

Meriwether Lewis, Hardin County, Tennessee.

Mound City Group, Chillicothe, Ohio.

Statue of Liberty, Fort Wood, New York.

#### miscellaneous memorials ####

Camp Blount Tablets, Lincoln County, Tennessee.

Kill Devil Hill Monument, Kitty Hawk, North Carolina.

New Echota Marker, Georgia.

Lee Mansion, Arlington National Cemetery, Virginia.

#### national cemeteries ####

Battleground, District of Columbia.

Antietam, (Sharpsburg) Maryland.

Vicksburg, Mississippi.

Gettysburg, Pennsylvania.

Chattanooga, Tennessee.

Fort Donelson, (Dover) Tennessee.

Shiloh, (Pittsburg Landing) Tennessee.

Stones River, (Murfreesboro) Tennessee.

Fredericksburg, Virginia.

Poplar Grove, (Petersburg) Virginia.

Yorktown, Virginia.

#### National Cemeteries in Foreign Countries ####

The functions of administration pertaining to national cemeteries located in foreign countries, which were transferred to the Department of State, were revoked and the functions of administration pertaining to national cemeteries and memorials located in Europe, together with personnel, records, etc. were transferred to the American Battle Monuments Commission by Ex. Ord. No. 6614, Apr. 25, 1934, set out as a note under section 901 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

