
### §2335. Exception relating to importation of goods ###

§2335. Exception relating to importation of goods

#### (a) In general ####

The authorities and requirements to impose sanctions under this chapter shall not include the authority or a requirement to impose sanctions on the importation of goods.

#### (b) Good defined ####

In this section, the term "good" means any article, natural or manmade substance, material, supply, or manufactured product, including inspection and test equipment, and excluding technical data.

(Pub. L. 116–92, div. F, title LXXII, §7235, Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 2275.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

This chapter, referred to in subsec. (a), was in the original "this title", meaning title LXXII of div. F of Pub. L. 116–92, known as the Fentanyl Sanctions Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 2301 of this title and Tables.

### **CHAPTER 28A—FENTANYL ERADICATION AND NARCOTICS DETERRENCE OFF FENTANYL** ###

Sec.
2341.Definitions.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—SANCTIONS IN RESPONSE TO NATIONAL EMERGENCY RELATING TO FENTANYL TRAFFICKING ####

2351.Finding; policy.
2352.Use of national emergency authorities; reporting.
2353.Imposition of sanctions with respect to fentanyl trafficking by transnational criminal organizations.
2354.Penalties; waivers; exceptions.
2355.Treatment of forfeited property of transnational criminal organizations.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING MATTERS ####

2361.Treatment of transnational criminal organizations in suspicious transactions reports of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—EXCEPTION RELATING TO IMPORTATION OF GOODS ####

2371.Exception relating to importation of goods.

