
### §412. Acquisition of lands and interests; acceptance of money and property; disposition and use of money ###

§412. Acquisition of lands and interests; acceptance of money and property; disposition and use of money

For the purposes of this chapter the Secretary, acting through the United States Bureau of Mines, is authorized to acquire land and interests therein; to receive and accept money and property, real or personal, or interests therein, and services as a gift, bequest, or contribution; and may conduct activities or projects in cooperation with any person, firm, agency, or organization, Federal, State, or private. Money so received shall be deposited in the Treasury of the United States in a special fund or funds for disbursement by the United States Bureau of Mines and shall remain available for the purposes for which received and accepted until expended.

(June 21, 1950, ch. 338, §2, 64 Stat. 248; Pub. L. 102–285, §10(b), May 18, 1992, 106 Stat. 172.)

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Change of Name ####

"United States Bureau of Mines" substituted in text for "Bureau of Mines" pursuant to section 10(b) of Pub. L. 102–285, set out as a note under section 1 of this title. For provisions relating to closure and transfer of functions of the United States Bureau of Mines, see Transfer of Functions note set out under section 1 of this title.

### **CHAPTER 10—COAL MINE SAFETY** ###

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Repeal of Chapter ####

Chapter repealed by Pub. L. 91–173, title V, §509, Dec. 30, 1969, 83 Stat. 803, on the operative date of sections 811 to 821 and 861 to 878 of this title, which became operative ninety days after the enactment of Pub. L. 91–173, approved Dec. 30, 1969, except that this chapter would continue to apply to any order, notice, decision, finding or any proceedings related to such order, notice, decision, or finding issued prior to the operative date of sections 811 to 821 and 861 to 878 of this title.

