
### §349. "State" defined ###

§349. "State" defined

The term "State" means the States of the Union, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam and the Northern Mariana Islands.

(May 8, 1914, ch. 79, §10, as added Pub. L. 87–749, §1(i), Oct. 5, 1962, 76 Stat. 745; amended Pub. L. 92–318, title V, §506(h), June 23, 1972, 86 Stat. 351; Pub. L. 99–396, §9(f), Aug. 27, 1986, 100 Stat. 840.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**1986**—Pub. L. 99–396 amended section generally, expanding definition of "State" to include the Northern Mariana Islands.

**1972**—Pub. L. 92–318 inserted reference to Virgin Islands and Guam.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date of 1972 Amendment ####

Amendment by Pub. L. 92–318 effective after June 30, 1970, see section 506(n) of Pub. L. 92–318, set out as a note under section 326a of this title.

### **CHAPTER 14—AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATIONS** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ####

Sec.
361.Repealed.
361a.Congressional declaration of purpose; definitions.
361b.Congressional statement of policy; researches, investigations and experiments.
361c.Authorization of appropriations and allotments of grants.
361d.Use of funds.
361e.Payment of allotments to State agricultural experiment stations; directors and treasurers or other officers; accounting; reports to Secretary; replacement by States of diminished, lost or misapplied allotments; subsequent allotments or payments contingent on such replacement.
361f.Publications of experiment stations; free mailing.
361g.Duties of Secretary; ascertainment of entitlement of State to funds; plans of work.
361h.Relation of college or university to State unaffected; division of appropriations.
361i.Power to amend, repeal, etc., reserved.
362 to 383. Transferred, Repealed, or Omitted.
384.Card index of agricultural literature; copies to be furnished by Secretary.
385.South Carolina Experiment Station; cooperation by Secretary of Agriculture; lump sum appropriation.
385a.Authorization of appropriations.
386 to 386g. Repealed.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—EXPERIMENT STATIONS FOR PROPAGATION OF TREES, SHRUBS, VINES, AND VEGETABLES ####

387.Station for semi-arid or dry-land regions; establishment.
387a.Authorization of appropriations.
388.Station for southern Great Plains area; establishment.
388a.Authorization of appropriations.
389.Transfer of certain dry land and irrigation field stations to States.
389a.Conditions of transfer of dry land and irrigation field stations; reservation of mineral rights.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—RESEARCH FACILITIES ####

390.Definitions.
390a.Review process.
390b.Competitive grant program.
390c.Applicability of chapter 10 of title 5.
390d.Authorization of appropriations.

### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ###

