
### §9213. Authorization of appropriations ###

§9213. Authorization of appropriations

(a) There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this chapter (1) for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1981, the sum of $100,000,000 (of which $10,000,000 shall be available exclusively for purposes of section 9206 of this title), and (2) for each fiscal year beginning after that date, such sum as may be authorized by legislation hereafter enacted.

(b) In each of the five years of the small wind energy systems program, at least 25 per centum of the total authorization for appropriations under subsection (a) shall be for small wind energy systems activities, including supporting activities.

(Pub. L. 96–345, §14, Sept. 8, 1980, 94 Stat. 1146.)

### **CHAPTER 101—MAGNETIC FUSION ENERGY ENGINEERING** ###

Sec.
9301.Congressional findings and declaration of policy.
9302.Definitions.
9303.Program activities.
9304.Comprehensive program management plan; submittal to Congressional committees.
9305.Magnetic fusion engineering center.
9306.Repealed.
9307.Program advisory committees.
9308.International cooperation; examination of impact on national magnetic fusion program; exploration of prospects for joint funding in construction of fusion engineering device; report to Congressional committees on results of examination and exploration.
9309.Technical manpower requirements; report to President and Congress.
9310.Dissemination of information.
9311.Repealed.
9312.Authorization of appropriations; contract authority.

