
### §1885c. Reporting ###

§1885c. Reporting

#### (a) Semiannual report ####

Not less frequently than once every 6 months, the Attorney General shall, in a manner consistent with national security, the Rules of the House of Representatives, the Standing Rules of the Senate, and Senate Resolution 400 of the 94th Congress or any successor Senate resolution, fully inform the congressional intelligence committees, the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate, and the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives concerning the implementation of this subchapter.

#### (b) Content ####

Each report made under subsection (a) shall include—

(1) any certifications made under section 1885a of this title;

(2) a description of the judicial review of the certifications made under section 1885a of this title; and

(3) any actions taken to enforce the provisions of section 1885b of this title.

(Pub. L. 95–511, title VIII, §804, as added Pub. L. 110–261, title II, §201, July 10, 2008, 122 Stat. 2470.)

### **CHAPTER 37—NATIONAL SECURITY SCHOLARSHIPS, FELLOWSHIPS, AND GRANTS** ###

Sec.
1901.Short title, findings, and purposes.
1902.Scholarship, fellowship, and grant program.
1903.National Security Education Board.
1904.National Security Education Trust Fund.
1905.Regulations and administrative provisions.
1906.Annual report.
1907.Government Accountability Office audits.
1908.Definitions.
1909.Fiscal year 1992 funding.
1910.Funding.
1911.Additional annual authorization of appropriations.
1912.Funding for scholarship program for advanced English language studies by heritage community citizens.
1913.National Language Service Corps.
1914.Department of Defense program to protect United States students against foreign agents.

