
### §18501. Exclusion of payments from State eugenics compensation programs from consideration in determining eligibility for, or the amount of, Federal public benefits ###

§18501. Exclusion of payments from State eugenics compensation programs from consideration in determining eligibility for, or the amount of, Federal public benefits

#### (a) In general ####

Notwithstanding any other provision of law, payments made under a State eugenics compensation program shall not be considered as income or resources in determining eligibility for, or the amount of, any Federal public benefit.

#### (b) Definitions ####

For purposes of this section:

#### (1) Federal public benefit ####

The term "Federal public benefit" means—

(A) any grant, contract, loan, professional license, or commercial license provided by an agency of the United States or by appropriated funds of the United States; and

(B) any retirement, welfare, health, disability, public or assisted housing, postsecondary education, food assistance, unemployment benefit, or any other similar benefit for which payments or assistance are provided to an individual, household, or family eligibility unit by an agency of the United States or by appropriated funds of the United States.

#### (2) State eugenics compensation program ####

The term "State eugenics compensation program" means a program established by State law that is intended to compensate individuals who were sterilized under the authority of the State.

(Pub. L. 114–241, §2, Oct. 7, 2016, 130 Stat. 976.)

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Short Title ####

Pub. L. 114–241, §1, Oct. 7, 2016, 130 Stat. 976, provided that: "This Act [enacting this chapter] may be cited as the 'Treatment of Certain Payments in Eugenics Compensation Act'."

### **CHAPTER 161—DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY RESEARCH AND INNOVATION** ###

Sec.
18601.Definitions.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—LABORATORY MODERNIZATION AND TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER ####

18611.Sense of Congress on accelerating energy innovation.
18612.Restoration of laboratory directed research and development program.
18613.Research grants database.
18614.Technology transfer and transitions assessment.
18615.Agreements for commercializing technology pilot program.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY RESEARCH COORDINATION ####

18631.Crosscutting research and development.
18632.Energy Innovation Hubs.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY OFFICE OF SCIENCE POLICY ####

18641.Basic energy sciences.
18642.Advanced scientific computing research.
18643.High-energy physics.
18644.Biological and environmental research.
18645.Fusion energy.
18646.Nuclear physics.
18647.Science laboratories infrastructure program.
18648.Accelerator research and development.
18649.Isotope research, development, and production.
18650.Increased collaboration with teachers and scientists.
18651.High intensity laser research initiative.
18652.Helium conservation program.
18653.Office of Science Biological Threat Preparedness Research Initiative.
18654.Midscale instrumentation and research equipment program.
18655.Authorization of appropriations.

