
### §3512. Treatment of certain persons as employers with respect to motion picture projects ###

§3512. Treatment of certain persons as employers with respect to motion picture projects

#### (a) In general ####

For purposes of sections 3121(a)(1) and 3306(b)(1), remuneration paid to a motion picture project worker by a motion picture project employer during a calendar year shall be treated as remuneration paid with respect to employment of such worker by such employer during the calendar year. The identity of such employer for such purposes shall be determined as set forth in this section and without regard to the usual common law rules applicable in determining the employer-employee relationship.

#### (b) Definitions ####

For purposes of this section—

#### (1) Motion picture project employer ####

The term "motion picture project employer" means any person if—

(A) such person (directly or through affiliates)—

(i) is a party to a written contract covering the services of motion picture project workers with respect to motion picture projects in the course of a client's trade or business,

(ii) is contractually obligated to pay remuneration to the motion picture project workers without regard to payment or reimbursement by any other person,

(iii) controls the payment (within the meaning of section 3401(d)(1)) of remuneration to the motion picture project workers and pays such remuneration from its own account or accounts,

(iv) is a signatory to one or more collective bargaining agreements with a labor organization (as defined in 29 U.S.C. 152(5)) that represents motion picture project workers, and

(v) has treated substantially all motion picture project workers that such person pays as employees and not as independent contractors during such calendar year for purposes of determining employment taxes under this subtitle, and

(B) at least 80 percent of all remuneration (to which section 3121 applies) paid by such person in such calendar year is paid to motion picture project workers.

#### (2) Motion picture project worker ####

The term "motion picture project worker" means any individual who provides services on motion picture projects for clients who are not affiliated with the motion picture project employer.

#### (3) Motion picture project ####

The term "motion picture project" means the production of any property described in section 168(f)(3). Such term does not include property with respect to which records are required to be maintained under section 2257 of title 18, United States Code.

#### (4) Affiliate; affiliated ####

A person shall be treated as an affiliate of, or affiliated with, another person if such persons are treated as a single employer under subsection (b) or (c) of section 414.

(Added Pub. L. 114–113, div. Q, title III, §346(a), Dec. 18, 2015, 129 Stat. 3115.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

29 U.S.C. 152, referred to in subsec. (b)(1)(A)(iv), is section 2 of the National Labor Relations Act, act July 5, 1935, ch. 372, 49 Stat. 450, which is classified to section 152 of Title 29, Labor.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date ####

Pub. L. 114–113, div. Q, title III, §346(c), Dec. 18, 2015, 129 Stat. 3116, provided that: "The amendments made by this section [enacting this section] shall apply to remuneration paid after December 31, 2015."

#### Construction ####

Pub. L. 114–113, div. Q, title III, §346(d), Dec. 18, 2015, 129 Stat. 3116, provided that: "Nothing in the amendments made by this section [enacting this section] shall be construed to create any inference on the law before the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 18, 2015]."

## Subtitle D—Miscellaneous Excise Taxes ##

ChapterSec.[1](#SubtitleD_1_target)
31.Retail excise taxes4001
32.Manufacturers excise taxes4061
33.Facilities and services4231
34.Taxes on certain insurance policies4371
35.Taxes on wagering4401
36.Certain other excise taxes4451
37.Repurchase of corporate stock4501
38.Environmental taxes4611
39.Registration-required obligations4701
40.General provisions relating to occupational taxes4901
41.Public charities4911
42.Private foundations; and certain other tax-exempt organizations4940
43.Qualified pension, etc., plans4971
44.Real estate investment trusts4981
45.Provisions relating to expatriated entities4985
46.Golden parachute payments4999
47.Certain group health plans5000
48.Maintenance of minimum essential coverage5000A
49.Cosmetic services5000B
50.Foreign procurement5000C
50A.Designated drugs5000D

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2022**—Pub. L. 117–169, title I, §§10201(c), 11003(c), Aug. 16, 2022, 136 Stat. 1831, 1864, added items for chapters 37 and 50A.

**2011**—Pub. L. 111–347, title III, §301(a)(2), Jan. 2, 2011, 124 Stat. 3666, added item for chapter 50.

**2010**—Pub. L. 111–148, title X, §10907(c), Mar. 23, 2010, 124 Stat. 1020, added item for chapter 49.

Pub. L. 111–148, title IX, §9017(b), Mar. 23, 2010, 124 Stat. 872, which directed amendment of analysis by adding item for chapter 49, was not executed in view of Pub. L. 111–148, title X, §10907(a), Mar. 23, 2010, 124 Stat. 1020, which provided that the amendments made by section 9017 of Pub. L. 111–148 were deemed null, void, and of no effect.

Pub. L. 111–148, title I, §1501(c), title VI, §6301(e)(2)(B)(ii), Mar. 23, 2010, 124 Stat. 249, 747, added items for chapters 34 and 48 and struck out former item for chapter 34 "Documentary stamp taxes".

**2004**—Pub. L. 108–357, title VIII, §802(c)(2), Oct. 22, 2004, 118 Stat. 1568, added item for chapter 45.

**1990**—Pub. L. 101–508, title XI, §11801(b)(17), Nov. 5, 1990, 104 Stat. 1388–522, struck out item for chapter 37 "Sugar, coconut and palm oil".

**1989**—Pub. L. 101–239, title VI, §6202(b)(4)(B), title VII, §7841(d)(4), Dec. 19, 1989, 103 Stat. 2233, 2428, substituted semicolon for comma in item for chapter 42 and struck out "large" after "Certain" in item for chapter 47.

**1988**—Pub. L. 100–418, title I, §1941(b)(3)(A), Aug. 23, 1988, 102 Stat. 1324, struck out item for chapter 45 "Windfall profit tax on domestic crude oil".

**1987**—Pub. L. 100–203, title X, §10712(c)(8), Dec. 22, 1987, 101 Stat. 1330–467, substituted "and certain other tax-exempt organizations" for "black lung benefit trusts" in item for chapter 42.

**1986**—Pub. L. 99–509, title IX, §9319(d)(2), Oct. 21, 1986, 100 Stat. 2012, added item for chapter 47.

**1984**—Pub. L. 98–369, div. A, title I, §67(d)(2), July 18, 1984, 98 Stat. 587, added item for chapter 46.

**1983**—Pub. L. 97–424, title V, §512(b)(2)(B), Jan. 6, 1983, 96 Stat. 2177, substituted "Retail excise taxes" for "Special fuels" in item for chapter 31.

**1982**—Pub. L. 97–248, title III, §310(b)(4)(B), Sept. 3, 1982, 96 Stat. 598, added item for chapter 39.

**1980**—Pub. L. 96–510, title II, §211(b), Dec. 11, 1980, 94 Stat. 2801, added item for chapter 38.

Pub. L. 96–223, §101(a)(2), Apr. 2, 1980, 94 Stat. 250, added item for chapter 45.

**1978**—Pub. L. 95–227, §4(c)(2)(C), Feb. 10, 1978, 92 Stat. 22, inserted ", black lung benefit trusts" after "foundations" in item for chapter 42.

**1976**—Pub. L. 94–455, title XIII, §1307(d)(3)(A), title XVI, §1605(c), title XIX, §§1904(b)(7)(E), (10)(G), 1952(n)(6), Oct. 4, 1976, 90 Stat. 1728, 1755, 1815, 1818, 1846, substituted "41. Public charities" for "41. Interest equalization tax" added item for chapter 44 and struck out items for chapters "38. Import taxes" and "39. Regulatory taxes".

**1974**—Pub. L. 93–406, title II, §1016(b)(2), Sept. 2, 1974, 88 Stat. 932, added item for chapter 43.

**1969**—Pub. L. 91–172, title I, §101(j)(59), Dec. 30, 1969, 83 Stat. 532, added item for chapter 42.

**1964**—Pub. L. 88–563, §2(b), Sept. 2, 1964, 78 Stat. 841, added item for chapter 41.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Imposition of Annual Fee on Branded Prescription Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and Importers ####

Pub. L. 111–148, title IX, §9008, Mar. 23, 2010, 124 Stat. 859, as amended by Pub. L. 111–152, title I, §1404(a), Mar. 30, 2010, 124 Stat. 1064, provided that:

"(a) Imposition of Fee.—

"(1) In general.—Each covered entity engaged in the business of manufacturing or importing branded prescription drugs shall pay to the Secretary of the Treasury not later than the annual payment date of each calendar year beginning after 2010 a fee in an amount determined under subsection (b).

"(2) Annual payment date.—For purposes of this section, the term 'annual payment date' means with respect to any calendar year the date determined by the Secretary, but in no event later than September 30 of such calendar year.

"(b) Determination of Fee Amount.—

"(1) In general.—With respect to each covered entity, the fee under this section for any calendar year shall be equal to an amount that bears the same ratio to the applicable amount as—

"(A) the covered entity's branded prescription drug sales taken into account during the preceding calendar year, bear to

"(B) the aggregate branded prescription drug sales of all covered entities taken into account during such preceding calendar year.

"(2) Sales taken into account.—For purposes of paragraph (1), the branded prescription drug sales taken into account during any calendar year with respect to any covered entity shall be determined in accordance with the following table:

| "With respect to a covered entity's aggregate branded prescription drug sales during the calendar year that are: | The percentage of such sales taken into account is: |
| Not more than $5,000,000 | 0 percent |
| More than $5,000,000 but not more than $125,000,000 | 10 percent |
| More than $125,000,000 but not more than $225,000,000 | 40 percent |
| More than $225,000,000 but not more than $400,000,000 | 75 percent |
| More than $400,000,000 | 100 percent. |

"(3) Secretarial determination.—The Secretary of the Treasury shall calculate the amount of each covered entity's fee for any calendar year under paragraph (1). In calculating such amount, the Secretary of the Treasury shall determine such covered entity's branded prescription drug sales on the basis of reports submitted under subsection (g) and through the use of any other source of information available to the Secretary of the Treasury.

"(4) Applicable amount.—For purposes of paragraph (1), the applicable amount shall be determined in accordance with the following table:

|||
| **"Calendar year** | **Applicable amount** |
| 2011 | $2,500,000,000 |
| 2012 | $2,800,000,000 |
| 2013 | $2,800,000,000 |
| 2014 | $3,000,000,000 |
| 2015 | $3,000,000,000 |
| 2016 | $3,000,000,000 |
| 2017 | $4,000,000,000 |
| 2018 | $4,100,000,000 |
| 2019 and thereafter | $2,800,000,000. |

"(c) Transfer of Fees to Medicare Part B Trust Fund.—There is hereby appropriated to the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund established under section 1841 of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 1395t] an amount equal to the fees received by the Secretary of the Treasury under subsection (a).

"(d) Covered Entity.—

"(1) In general.—For purposes of this section, the term 'covered entity' means any manufacturer or importer with gross receipts from branded prescription drug sales.

"(2) Controlled groups.—

"(A) In general.—For purposes of this subsection, all persons treated as a single employer under subsection (a) or (b) of section 52 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 or subsection (m) or (o) of section 414 of such Code shall be treated as a single covered entity.

"(B) Inclusion of foreign corporations.—For purposes of subparagraph (A), in applying subsections (a) and (b) of section 52 of such Code to this section, section 1563 of such Code shall be applied without regard to subsection (b)(2)(C) thereof.

"(3) Joint and several liability.—If more than one person is liable for payment of the fee under subsection (a) with respect to a single covered entity by reason of the application of paragraph (2), all such persons shall be jointly and severally liable for payment of such fee.

"(e) Branded Prescription Drug Sales.—For purposes of this section—

"(1) In general.—The term 'branded prescription drug sales' means sales of branded prescription drugs to any specified government program or pursuant to coverage under any such program.

"(2) Branded prescription drugs.—

"(A) In general.—The term 'branded prescription drug' means—

"(i) any prescription drug the application for which was submitted under section 505(b) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 355(b)), or

"(ii) any biological product the license for which was submitted under section 351(a) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 262(a)).

"(B) Prescription drug.—For purposes of subparagraph (A)(i), the term 'prescription drug' means any drug which is subject to section 503(b) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 353(b)).

"(3) Exclusion of orphan drug sales.—The term 'branded prescription drug sales' shall not include sales of any drug or biological product with respect to which a credit was allowed for any taxable year under section 45C of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. The preceding sentence shall not apply with respect to any such drug or biological product after the date on which such drug or biological product is approved by the Food and Drug Administration for marketing for any indication other than the treatment of the rare disease or condition with respect to which such credit was allowed.

"(4) Specified government program.—The term 'specified government program' means—

"(A) the Medicare Part D program under part D of title XVIII of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 1395w–101 et seq.],

"(B) the Medicare Part B program under part B of title XVIII of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 1395j et seq.],

"(C) the Medicaid program under title XIX of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.],

"(D) any program under which branded prescription drugs are procured by the Department of Veterans Affairs,

"(E) any program under which branded prescription drugs are procured by the Department of Defense, or

"(F) the TRICARE retail pharmacy program under section 1074g of title 10, United States Code.

"(f) Tax Treatment of Fees.—The fees imposed by this section—

"(1) for purposes of subtitle F of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, shall be treated as excise taxes with respect to which only civil actions for refund under procedures of such subtitle shall apply, and

"(2) for purposes of section 275 of such Code, shall be considered to be a tax described in section 275(a)(6).

"(g) Reporting Requirement.—Not later than the date determined by the Secretary of the Treasury following the end of any calendar year, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and the Secretary of Defense shall report to the Secretary of the Treasury, in such manner as the Secretary of the Treasury prescribes, the total branded prescription drug sales for each covered entity with respect to each specified government program under such Secretary's jurisdiction using the following methodology:

"(1) Medicare part d program.—The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall report, for each covered entity and for each branded prescription drug of the covered entity covered by the Medicare Part D program, the product of—

"(A) the per-unit ingredient cost, as reported to the Secretary of Health and Human Services by prescription drug plans and Medicare Advantage prescription drug plans, minus any per-unit rebate, discount, or other price concession provided by the covered entity, as reported to the Secretary of Health and Human Services by the prescription drug plans and Medicare Advantage prescription drug plans, and

"(B) the number of units of the branded prescription drug paid for under the Medicare Part D program.

"(2) Medicare part b program.—The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall report, for each covered entity and for each branded prescription drug of the covered entity covered by the Medicare Part B program under section 1862(a) of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 1395y(a)], the product of—

"(A) the per-unit average sales price (as defined in section 1847A(c) of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 1395w–3a(c)]) or the per-unit Part B payment rate for a separately paid branded prescription drug without a reported average sales price, and

"(B) the number of units of the branded prescription drug paid for under the Medicare Part B program.

The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services shall establish a process for determining the units and the allocated price for purposes of this section for those branded prescription drugs that are not separately payable or for which National Drug Codes are not reported.

"(3) Medicaid program.—The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall report, for each covered entity and for each branded prescription drug of the covered entity covered under the Medicaid program, the product of—

"(A) the per-unit ingredient cost paid to pharmacies by States for the branded prescription drug dispensed to Medicaid beneficiaries, minus any per-unit rebate paid by the covered entity under section 1927 of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 1396r–8] and any State supplemental rebate, and

"(B) the number of units of the branded prescription drug paid for under the Medicaid program.

"(4) Department of veterans affairs programs.—The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall report, for each covered entity and for each branded prescription drug of the covered entity the total amount paid for each such branded prescription drug procured by the Department of Veterans Affairs for its beneficiaries.

"(5) Department of defense programs and tricare.—The Secretary of Defense shall report, for each covered entity and for each branded prescription drug of the covered entity, the sum of—

"(A) the total amount paid for each such branded prescription drug procured by the Department of Defense for its beneficiaries, and

"(B) for each such branded prescription drug dispensed under the TRICARE retail pharmacy program, the product of—

"(i) the per-unit ingredient cost, minus any per-unit rebate paid by the covered entity, and

"(ii) the number of units of the branded prescription drug dispensed under such program.

"(h) Secretary.—For purposes of this section, the term 'Secretary' includes the Secretary's delegate.

"(i) Guidance.—The Secretary of the Treasury shall publish guidance necessary to carry out the purposes of this section.

"(j) Effective Date.—This section shall apply to calendar years beginning after December 31, 2010.

"(k) Conforming Amendment.—[Amended section 1395t of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare.]"

[Pub. L. 111–152, title I, §1404(b), Mar. 30, 2010, 124 Stat. 1064, provided that: "The amendments made by this section [amending section 9008 of Pub. L. 111–148, set out above] shall take effect as if included in section 9008 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act [Pub. L. 111–148]."]

#### Imposition of Annual Fee on Medical Device Manufacturers and Importers ####

Pub. L. 111–148, title IX, §9009, Mar. 23, 2010, 124 Stat. 862, as amended by Pub. L. 111–148, title X, §10904(a), Mar. 23, 2010, 124 Stat. 1016, provided for the imposition of an annual fee on medical device manufacturers and importers in calendar years beginning after 2010, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 111–152, title I, §1405(d), Mar. 30, 2010, 124 Stat. 1065.

[Pub. L. 111–152, title I, §1405(d), Mar. 30, 2010, 124 Stat. 1065, provided that the repeal of section 9009 of Pub. L. 111–148, formerly set out above, is effective as of Mar. 23, 2010.]

#### Imposition of Annual Fee on Health Insurance Providers ####

Pub. L. 111–148, title IX, §9010, title X, §10905(a)–(f), Mar. 23, 2010, 124 Stat. 865, 1017–1019, as amended by Pub. L. 111–152, title I, §1406(a), Mar. 30, 2010, 124 Stat. 1065; Pub. L. 114–113, div. P, title II, §201, Dec. 18, 2015, 129 Stat. 3037; Pub. L. 115–120, div. D, §4003(b), Jan. 22, 2018, 132 Stat. 38, which imposed an annual fee on certain entities that provided health insurance for any United States health risk, was repealed by Pub. L. 116–94, div. N, title I, §502(a), Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 3119.

[Pub. L. 116–94, div. N, title I, §502(b), Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 3119, provided that, "The amendment made by this section [repealing section 9010 of Pub. L. 111–148, formerly set out above] shall apply to calendar years beginning after December 31, 2020."]

[1 Section numbers editorially supplied.](#SubtitleD_1)

### **CHAPTER 31—RETAIL EXCISE TAXES** ###

SubchapterSec.[1](#CHAPTER31_1_target)
[A.Repealed.]
B.Special fuels4041
C.Heavy trucks and trailers4051

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Prior Provisions ####

The provisions of a prior chapter 31, Miscellaneous Excise Taxes, were set out as:

Subchapter (A), Jewelry and related items, comprising sections 4001 to 4003;

Subchapter (B), Furs, comprising sections 4011 to 4013;

Subchapter (C), Toilet preparations, comprising sections 4021 and 4022;

Subchapter (D), Luggage, handbags, etc., comprising section 4031;

Subchapter (E), Special fuels, comprising sections 4041 and 4042; and

Subchapter (F), Special provisions applicable to retailers tax, comprising sections 4051 to 4058.

The headings for subchs. (A) to (D) were struck out by section 101(b)(1) and the listed sections were repealed by section 101(a) of Pub. L. 89–44, title I, June 21, 1965, 79 Stat. 136, the Excise Tax Reduction Act of 1965, applicable with respect to articles sold on or after June 22, 1965, as provided in section 701(a) of Pub. L. 89–44, set out as an Effective Date of 1965 Amendment note under section 4161 of this title.

The headings for subchs. (E) and (F) were stricken by section 1904(a)(1)(A) of Pub. L. 94–455, title XIX, Oct. 4, 1976, 90 Stat. 1810, the Tax Reform Act of 1976. Sections 4051 to 4053 were repealed by section 101(b)(2) of Pub. L. 89–44, title I, June 21, 1965, 79 Stat. 136, applicable with respect to articles sold on or after June 22, 1965, as provided in section 701(a) of Pub. L. 89–44, set out as an Effective Date of 1965 Amendment note under section 4061 of this title; and sections 4042 and 4054 to 4058 were repealed by section 1904(a)(1)(D) of Pub. L. 94–455, title XIX, Oct. 4, 1976, 90 Stat. 1811, effective Feb. 1, 1977, as provided in section 1904(d) of Pub. L. 94–455, set out as an Effective Date of 1976 Amendment note under section 4041 of this title.

The subject matter of the prior sections was as follows:

A prior section 4001, acts Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736, 68A Stat. 473; Sept. 2, 1958, Pub. L. 85–859, title I, §101, 72 Stat. 1275; Sept. 21, 1959, Pub. L. 86–344, §1(a), 73 Stat. 617, imposed an excise tax equivalent to 10 percent of selling price upon jewelry, stones, watches, clocks, case and movements for watches and clocks, flatware and hollow ware, opera glasses, lorgnettes, marine glasses, field glasses, and binoculars.

A prior section 4002, act Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736, 68A Stat. 473, defined "articles sold at retail" to include articles sold at auction.

A prior section 4003, acts Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736, 68A Stat. 474; Sept. 2, 1958, Pub. L. 85–859, title I, §102, 72 Stat. 1276, specified exemptions to tax imposed by section 4001.

A prior section 4011, act Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736, 68A Stat. 475, imposed an excise tax equivalent to 10 percent of selling price upon fur articles.

A prior section 4012, act Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736, 68A Stat. 475, defined "article sold at retail" to include articles manufactured from material supplied by customer and articles sold at auction.

A prior section 4013, act Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736, 68A Stat. 475, specified exemptions to tax imposed by section 4011.

A prior section 4021, acts Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736, 68A Stat. 476; Apr. 8, 1960, Pub. L. 86–413, §1, 74 Stat. 31, imposed an excise tax equivalent to 10 percent of selling price upon toilet preparations.

A prior section 4022, act Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736, 68A Stat. 476, specified certain exemptions from tax imposed by section 4021, including items for babies, items used in barber shops and beauty parlors, and miniature samples.

A prior section 4031, acts Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736, 68A Stat. 477; Sept. 2, 1958, Pub. L. 85–859, title I, §103, 72 Stat. 1276, imposed an excise tax equivalent to 10 percent of selling price upon luggage and handbags, including billfolds and wallets, traveler's garment bags, and briefcases.

A prior section 4042, act Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736, 68A Stat. 478, provided a cross reference to section 4222 for exemption from tax where special motor fuels are sold for use for certain vessels.

A prior section 4051, act Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736, 68A Stat. 479, defined price for which articles were sold for purposes of determining retailers excise taxes.

A prior section 4052, act Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736, 68A Stat. 479, provided that lease of an article would be considered sale of article for excise tax purposes.

A prior section 4053, acts Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736, 68A Stat. 479; Sept. 2, 1958, Pub. L. 85–859, title I, §104, 72 Stat. 1276, made provision for imposition of retailers tax on installment sales.

A prior section 4054, act Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736, 68A Stat. 479, related to application of taxes to retail sales by United States or by any agency or instrumentality of United States unless specifically exempted from such tax.

A prior section 4055, act Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736, 68A Stat. 480; June 21, 1965, Pub. L. 89–44, title I, §101(b)(3), 79 Stat. 136, exempted from taxes articles sold for exclusive use of any State, Territory of United States, or any political subdivision thereof, or District of Columbia, including use by such entities of any liquid as a fuel.

A prior section 4056, act Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736, 68A Stat. 480, provided that no tax shall be imposed upon sale of any article for export, or for shipment to a possession of United States and in due course so shipped and exported.

A prior section 4057, added Pub. L. 85–859, title I, §105(a), Sept. 2, 1958, 72 Stat. 1277; amended Pub. L. 86–344, §2(a), Sept. 21, 1959, 73 Stat. 617; Pub. L. 89–44, title I, §101(b)(4), June 21, 1965, 79 Stat. 136; Pub. L. 91–172, title I, §101(j)(25), Dec. 30, 1969, 83 Stat. 528, provided an exception with respect to sale of any article to a non-profit educational organization for its exclusive use including use of any liquid as a fuel and defined "non-profit educational organization".

A prior section 4058, act Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736, 68A Stat. 480, §4058, formerly 4057; renumbered Sept. 2, 1958, Pub. L. 85–859, title I, §105(a), 72 Stat. 1277, related to cross references for exemption of sales to United States in certain cases and administrative provisions of general application.

#### Amendments ####

**2014**—Pub. L. 113–295, div. A, title II, §221(a)(103)(A), Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 4052, struck out item for subchapter A "Luxury passenger vehicles".

**1993**—Pub. L. 103–66, title XIII, §13161(b)(3), Aug. 10, 1993, 107 Stat. 453, substituted "Luxury passenger vehicles" for "Certain luxury items" in item for subchapter A.

**1990**—Pub. L. 101–508, title XI, §11221(e), Nov. 5, 1990, 104 Stat. 1388–444, added item for subchapter A and redesignated former items for subchapters A and B as B and C, respectively.

**1983**—Pub. L. 97–424, title V, §512(b)(2)(A), Jan. 6, 1983, 96 Stat. 2177, substituted "Retail Excise Taxes" for "Special Fuels" in chapter heading, and added an analysis for subchapters A and B.

**1976**—Pub. L. 94–455, title XIX, §1904(a)(1)(A), Oct. 4, 1976, 90 Stat. 1810, substituted "Special Fuels" for "Retailers Excise Taxes" in chapter heading.

[1 Section numbers editorially supplied.](#CHAPTER31_1)

### **[Subchapter A—Repealed]** ###

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Prior Provisions ####

This subchapter consisted of part I with subparts A (§§4001–4004) and B (§§4006, 4007) and part II (§§4011, 4012), prior to being amended generally by Pub. L. 103–66, title XIII, §13161(a), Aug. 10, 1993, 107 Stat. 449.

Another prior subchapter A of chapter 31 was redesignated subchapter B by Pub. L. 101–508, title XI, §11221(a), Nov. 5, 1990, 104 Stat. 1388–438.

