
### §4425. Definition of weapon system component ###

§4425. Definition of weapon system component

In this subchapter, the term "weapon system component" has the meaning given the term "major system component" in section 4401 of this title.

(Added Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title VIII, §806(a)(1), Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2259, §2447e; renumbered §4425 and amended Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §1851(c)(1), (5), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4272, 4273.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2021**—Pub. L. 116–283, §1851(c)(5), substituted "section 4401" for "section 2446a".

Pub. L. 116–283, §1851(c)(1), renumbered section 2447e of this title as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment ####

Amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.

#### Effective Date ####

Section effective Jan. 1, 2017, see section 806(a)(2) of Pub. L. 114–328, set out as a note under section 4421 of this title.

## Subpart G—Other Special Categories Of Contracting ##

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §801(a), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1830, added subpart heading.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Requiring Defense Microelectronics Products and Services Meet Trusted Supply Chain and Operational Security Standards ####

Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title II, §224, Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 1266, provided that:

"(a) Purchases.—To protect the United States from intellectual property theft and to ensure national security and public safety in the application of new generations of wireless network technology and microelectronics, beginning no later than January 1, 2023, the Secretary of Defense shall ensure that each microelectronics product or service that the Department of Defense purchases on or after such date meets the applicable trusted supply chain and operational security standards established pursuant to subsection (b), except in a case in which the Department seeks to purchase a microelectronics product or service but—

"(1) no such product or service is available for purchase that meets such standards; or

"(2) no such product or service is available for purchase that—

"(A) meets such standards; and

"(B) is available at a price that the Secretary does not consider prohibitively expensive.

"(b) Trusted Supply Chain and Operational Security Standards.—

"(1) Standards required.—(A) Not later than January 1, 2021, the Secretary shall establish trusted supply chain and operational security standards for the purchase of microelectronics products and services by the Department.

"(B) For purposes of this section, a trusted supply chain and operational security standard—

"(i) is a standard that systematizes best practices relevant to—

"(I) manufacturing location;

"(II) company ownership;

"(III) workforce composition;

"(IV) access during manufacturing, suppliers' design, sourcing, manufacturing, packaging, and distribution processes;

"(V) reliability of the supply chain; and

"(VI) other matters germane to supply chain and operational security; and

"(ii) is not a military standard (also known as 'MIL-STD') or a military specification (also known as 'MIL-SPEC') for microelectronics that—

"(I) specifies individual features for Department of Defense microelectronics; or

"(II) otherwise inhibits the acquisition by the Department of securely manufactured, commercially-available products.

"(2) Consultation required.—In developing standards under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consult with the following:

"(A) The Secretary of Homeland Security, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Commerce, and the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology.

"(B) Suppliers of microelectronics products and services from the United States and allies and partners of the United States.

"(C) Representatives of major United States industry sectors that rely on a trusted supply chain and the operational security of microelectronics products and services.

"(D) Representatives of the United States insurance industry.

"(3) Tiers of trust and levels of security authorized.—In carrying out paragraph (1), the Secretary may establish tiers and levels of trust and security within the supply chain and operational security standards for microelectronics products and services.

"(4) General applicability.—The standards established pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be, to the greatest extent practicable, generally applicable to the trusted supply chain and operational security needs and use cases of the United States Government and commercial industry, such that the standards could be widely adopted by government agencies, commercial industry, and allies and partners of the United States as the basis for procuring microelectronics products and services.

"(5) Annual review.—Not later than October 1 of each year, the Secretary shall, in consultation with persons and entities set forth under paragraph (2), review the standards established pursuant to paragraph (1) and issue updates or modifications as the Secretary considers necessary or appropriate.

"(c) Ensuring Ability to Sell Commercially.—

"(1) In general.—The Secretary shall, to the greatest extent practicable, ensure that suppliers of microelectronics products and services for the Department of Defense subject to subsection (a) are able and incentivized to sell products commercially and to governments of allies and partners of the United States that are produced on the same production lines as the microelectronics products supplied to the Department of Defense.

"(2) Effect of requirements and acquisitions.—The Secretary shall, to the greatest extent practicable, ensure that the requirements of the Department and the acquisition by the Department of microelectronics enable the success of a dual-use microelectronics industry.

"(d) Maintaining Competition and Innovation.—The Secretary shall take such actions as the Secretary considers necessary and appropriate, within the Secretary's authorized activities to maintain the health of the defense industrial base, to ensure that—

"(1) providers of microelectronics products and services that meet the standards established under subsection (b) are exposed to competitive market pressures to achieve competitive pricing and sustained innovation; and

"(2) the industrial base of microelectronics products and services that meet the standards established under subsection (b) includes providers manufacturing in the United States or in countries that are allies or partners of the United States."

#### Standards and Certification for Private Security Contractors ####

Pub. L. 111–383, div. A, title VIII, §833, Jan. 7, 2011, 124 Stat. 4276, provided that:

"(a) Review of Third-Party Standards and Certification Processes.—Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 7, 2011], the Secretary of Defense shall—

"(1) determine whether the private sector has developed—

"(A) operational and business practice standards applicable to private security contractors; and

"(B) third-party certification processes for determining whether private security contractors adhere to standards described in subparagraph (A); and

"(2) review any standards and processes identified pursuant to paragraph (1) to determine whether the application of such standards and processes will make a substantial contribution to the successful performance of private security functions in areas of combat operations or other significant military operations.

"(b) Revised Regulations.—Not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall revise the regulations promulgated under section 862 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110–181; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note [now 10 U.S.C. 4501 note prec., set out below]) to ensure that such regulations—

"(1) establish criteria for defining standard practices for the performance of private security functions, which shall reflect input from industry representatives as well as the Inspector General of the Department of Defense; and

"(2) establish criteria for weapons training programs for contractors performing private security functions, including minimum requirements for weapons training programs of instruction and minimum qualifications for instructors for such programs.

"(c) Inclusion of Third-Party Standards and Certifications in Revised Regulations.—

"(1) Standards.—If the Secretary determines that the application of operational and business practice standards identified pursuant to subsection (a)(1)(A) will make a substantial contribution to the successful performance of private security functions in areas of combat operations or other significant military operations, the revised regulations promulgated pursuant to subsection (b) shall incorporate a requirement to comply with such standards, subject to such exceptions as the Secretary may determine to be necessary.

"(2) Certifications.—If the Secretary determines that the application of a third-party certification process identified pursuant to subsection (a)(1)(B) will make a substantial contribution to the successful performance of private security functions in areas of combat operations or other significant military operations, the revised regulations promulgated pursuant to subsection (b) may provide for the consideration of such certifications as a factor in the evaluation of proposals for award of a covered contract for the provision of private security functions, subject to such exceptions as the Secretary may determine to be necessary.

"(d) Definitions.—In this section:

"(1) Covered contract.—The term 'covered contract' means—

"(A) a contract of the Department of Defense for the performance of services;

"(B) a subcontract at any tier under such a contract; or

"(C) a task order or delivery order issued under such a contract or subcontract.

"(2) Contractor.—The term 'contractor' means, with respect to a covered contract, the contractor or subcontractor carrying out the covered contract.

"(3) Private security functions.—The term 'private security functions' means activities engaged in by a contractor under a covered contract as follows:

"(A) Guarding of personnel, facilities, or property of a Federal agency, the contractor or subcontractor, or a third party.

"(B) Any other activity for which personnel are required to carry weapons in the performance of their duties.

"(e) Exception.—The requirements of this section shall not apply to contracts entered into by elements of the intelligence community in support of intelligence activities."

#### Contracts in Iraq and Afghanistan and Private Security Contracts in Areas of Other Significant Military Operations ####

Pub. L. 111–383, div. A, title VIII, §831(b), Jan. 7, 2011, 124 Stat. 4274, provided that:

"(1) Deadline for regulations.—Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 7, 2011], the Secretary of Defense shall revise the regulations prescribed pursuant to section 862 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110–181; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note [now 10 U.S.C. 4501 note prec., set out below]) to incorporate the requirements of the amendments made by subsection (a).

"(2) Commencement of applicability of revisions.—The revision of regulations under paragraph (1) shall apply to the following:

"(A) Any contract that is awarded on or after the date that is 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.

"(B) Any task or delivery order that is issued on or after the date that is 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act pursuant to a contract that is awarded before, on, or after the date that is 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.

"(3) Commencement of inclusion of contract clause.—A contract clause that reflects the revision of regulations required by the amendments made by subsection (a) shall be inserted, as required by such section 862, into the following:

"(A) Any contract described in paragraph (2)(A).

"(B) Any task or delivery order described in paragraph (2)(B)."

Pub. L. 111–383, div. A, title VIII, §832(b), Jan. 7, 2011, 124 Stat. 4275, provided that:

"(1) Determination required for certain areas.—Not later than 150 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 7, 2011], the Secretary of Defense shall make a written determination for each of the following areas regarding whether or not the area constitutes an area of combat operations or an area of other significant military operations for purposes of designation as such an area under section 862 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110–181; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note [now 10 U.S.C. 4501 note prec., set out below]), as amended by this section:

"(A) The Horn of Africa region.

"(B) Yemen.

"(C) The Philippines.

"(2) Submission to congress.—Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees [Committees on Armed Services and Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives] a copy of each written determination under paragraph (1), together with an explanation of the basis for such determination."

Pub. L. 110–417, [div. A], title VIII, §854(b), Oct. 14, 2008, 122 Stat. 4545, provided that:

"(1) Through memorandum of understanding.—The memorandum of understanding required by section 861(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110–181; 122 Stat. 253; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note [now 10 U.S.C. 4501 note prec., set out below]) shall be modified to address the requirements under the amendment made by subsection (a) [amending Pub. L. 110–181, §861(b), set out below] not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 14, 2008].

"(2) As condition of current and future contracts.—The requirements under the amendment made by subsection (a) shall be included in each contract in Iraq or Afghanistan (as defined in section 864(a)(2) of Public Law 110–181; [10 U.S.C.] 2302 note [now 10 U.S.C. 4501 note prec., set out below]) awarded on or after the date that is 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 14, 2008]. Federal agencies shall make best efforts to provide for the inclusion of such requirements in covered contracts awarded before such date."

Pub. L. 110–417, [div. A], title VIII, §854(c), Oct. 14, 2008, 122 Stat. 4545, provided that: "Beginning not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 14, 2008], the Secretary of Defense shall make publicly available a numerical accounting of alleged offenses described in section 861(b)(6) of Public Law 110–181 [set out below] that have been reported under that section that occurred after the date of the enactment of this Act. The information shall be updated no less frequently than semi-annually."

Pub. L. 110–181, div. A, title VIII, subtitle F, Jan. 28, 2008, 122 Stat. 253, as amended by Pub. L. 110–417, [div. A], title VIII, §§853, 854(a), (d), Oct. 14, 2008, 122 Stat. 4544, 4545; Pub. L. 111–84, div. A, title VIII, §813(a)–(c), Oct. 28, 2009, 123 Stat. 2406, 2407; Pub. L. 111–383, div. A, title VIII, §§831(a), 832(a), (c), 835, title X, §1075(d)(9), Jan. 7, 2011, 124 Stat. 4273, 4275, 4276, 4279, 4373; Pub. L. 112–81, div. A, title VIII, §844(c), Dec. 31, 2011, 125 Stat. 1515; Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title VIII, §847, Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 1850; Pub. L. 113–291, div. A, title X, §1071(b)(2)(D), Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3506, provided that:

#### "SEC. 861. MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING ON MATTERS RELATING TO CONTRACTING. ####

"(a) Memorandum of Understanding Required.—The Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of State, and the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development shall, not later than July 1, 2008, enter into a memorandum of understanding regarding matters relating to contracting for contracts in Iraq or Afghanistan.

"(b) Matters Covered.—The memorandum of understanding required by subsection (a) shall address, at a minimum, the following:

"(1) Identification of the major categories of contracts in Iraq or Afghanistan being awarded by the Department of Defense, the Department of State, or the United States Agency for International Development.

"(2) Identification of the roles and responsibilities of each department or agency for matters relating to contracting for contracts in Iraq or Afghanistan.

"(3) Responsibility for establishing procedures for, and the coordination of, movement of contractor personnel in Iraq or Afghanistan.

"(4) Identification of common databases that will serve as repositories of information on contracts in Iraq or Afghanistan and contractor personnel in Iraq or Afghanistan, including agreement on the elements to be included in the databases, including, at a minimum—

"(A) with respect to each contract—

"(i) a brief description of the contract (to the extent consistent with security considerations);

"(ii) the total value of the contract; and

"(iii) whether the contract was awarded competitively; and

"(B) with respect to contractor personnel—

"(i) the total number of personnel employed on contracts in Iraq or Afghanistan;

"(ii) the total number of personnel performing security functions under contracts in Iraq or Afghanistan; and

"(iii) the total number of personnel working under contracts in Iraq or Afghanistan who have been killed or wounded.

"(5) Responsibility for maintaining and updating information in the common databases identified under paragraph (4).

"(6) Responsibility for the collection and referral to the appropriate Government agency of any information relating to offenses under chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code (the Uniform Code of Military Justice) or chapter 212 of title 18, United States Code (commonly referred to as the Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act), including a clarification of responsibilities under section 802(a)(10) of title 10, United States Code (article 2(a) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as amended by section 552 of the John Warner National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 109–364).

"(7) Mechanisms for ensuring that contractors are required to report offenses described in paragraph (6) that are alleged to have been committed by or against contractor personnel to appropriate investigative authorities.

"(8) Responsibility for providing victim and witness protection and assistance to contractor personnel in connection with alleged offenses described in paragraph (6).

"(9) Development of a requirement that a contractor shall provide to all contractor personnel who will perform work on a contract in Iraq or Afghanistan, before beginning such work, information on the following:

"(A) How and where to report an alleged offense described in paragraph (6).

"(B) Where to seek the assistance required by paragraph (8).

"(c) Implementation of Memorandum of Understanding.—Not later than 120 days after the memorandum of understanding required by subsection (a) is signed, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of State, and the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development shall issue such policies or guidance and prescribe such regulations as are necessary to implement the memorandum of understanding for the relevant matters pertaining to their respective agencies.

"(d) Copies Provided to Congress.—

"(1) Memorandum of understanding.—Copies of the memorandum of understanding required by subsection (a) shall be provided to the relevant committees of Congress within 30 days after the memorandum is signed.

"(2) Report on implementation.—Not later than 180 days after the memorandum of understanding required by subsection (a) is signed, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of State, and the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development shall each provide a report to the relevant committees of Congress on the implementation of the memorandum of understanding.

"(3) Databases.—The Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of State, or the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development shall provide access to the common databases identified under subsection (b)(4) to the relevant committees of Congress.

"(4) Contracts.—Effective on the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 28, 2008], copies of any contracts in Iraq or Afghanistan awarded after December 1, 2007, shall be provided to any of the relevant committees of Congress within 15 days after the submission of a request for such contract or contracts from such committee to the department or agency managing the contract.

#### "SEC. 862. CONTRACTORS PERFORMING PRIVATE SECURITY FUNCTIONS IN AREAS OF COMBAT OPERATIONS OR OTHER SIGNIFICANT MILITARY OPERATIONS. ####

"(a) Regulations on Contractors Performing Private Security Functions.—

"(1) In general.—Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 28, 2008], the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State, shall prescribe regulations on the selection, training, equipping, and conduct of personnel performing private security functions under a covered contract in an area of combat operations or other significant military operations.

"(2) Elements.—The regulations prescribed under subsection (a) shall, at a minimum, establish—

"(A) a process for registering, processing, accounting for, and keeping appropriate records of personnel performing private security functions in an area of combat operations or other significant military operations;

"(B) a process for authorizing and accounting for weapons to be carried by, or available to be used by, personnel performing private security functions in an area of combat operations or other significant military operations;

"(C) a process for the registration and identification of armored vehicles, helicopters, and other military vehicles operated by contractors performing private security functions in an area of combat operations or other significant military operations;

"(D) a process under which contractors are required to report all incidents, and persons other than contractors are permitted to report incidents, in which—

"(i) a weapon is discharged by personnel performing private security functions in an area of combat operations or other significant military operations;

"(ii) personnel performing private security functions in an area of combat operations or other significant military operations are killed or injured;

"(iii) persons are killed or injured, or property is destroyed, as a result of conduct by contractor personnel;

"(iv) a weapon is discharged against personnel performing private security functions in an area of combat operations or other significant military operations or personnel performing such functions believe a weapon was so discharged; or

"(v) active, non-lethal countermeasures (other than the discharge of a weapon) are employed by the personnel performing private security functions in an area of combat operations or other significant military operations in response to a perceived immediate threat to such personnel;

"(E) a process for the independent review and, if practicable, investigation of—

"(i) incidents reported pursuant to subparagraph (D); and

"(ii) incidents of alleged misconduct by personnel performing private security functions in an area of combat operations or other significant military operations;

"(F) requirements for qualification, training, screening (including, if practicable, through background checks), and security for personnel performing private security functions in an area of combat operations or other significant military operations;

"(G) guidance to the commanders of the combatant commands on the issuance of—

"(i) orders, directives, and instructions to contractors performing private security functions relating to equipment, force protection, security, health, safety, or relations and interaction with locals;

"(ii) predeployment training requirements for personnel performing private security functions in an area of combat operations or other significant military operations, addressing the requirements of this section, resources and assistance available to contractor personnel, country information and cultural training, and guidance on working with host country nationals and military; and

"(iii) rules on the use of force for personnel performing private security functions in an area of combat operations or other significant military operations;

"(H) a process by which a commander of a combatant command may request an action described in subsection (b)(3); and

"(I) a process by which the training requirements referred to in subparagraph (G)(ii) shall be implemented.

"(3) Availability of orders, directives, and instructions.—The regulations prescribed under subsection (a) shall include mechanisms to ensure the provision and availability of the orders, directives, and instructions referred to in paragraph (2)(G)(i) to contractors referred to in that paragraph, including through the maintenance of a single location (including an Internet website, to the extent consistent with security considerations) at or through which such contractors may access such orders, directives, and instructions.

"(b) Contract Clause on Contractors Performing Private Security Functions.—

"(1) Requirement under far.—Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 28, 2008], the Federal Acquisition Regulation issued in accordance with section 1303 of title 41, United States Code[,] shall be revised to require the insertion into each covered contract (or, in the case of a task order, the contract under which the task order is issued) of a contract clause addressing the selection, training, equipping, and conduct of personnel performing private security functions under such contract.

"(2) Clause requirement.—The contract clause required by paragraph (1) shall require, at a minimum, that the contractor concerned shall—

"(A) ensure that the contractor and all employees of the contractor or any subcontractor who are responsible for performing private security functions under such contract comply with regulations prescribed under subsection (a), including any revisions or updates to such regulations, and follow the procedures established in such regulations for—

"(i) registering, processing, accounting for, and keeping appropriate records of personnel performing private security functions in an area of combat operations or other significant military operations;

"(ii) authorizing and accounting of weapons to be carried by, or available to be used by, personnel performing private security functions in an area of combat operations or other significant military operations;

"(iii) registration and identification of armored vehicles, helicopters, and other military vehicles operated by contractors and subcontractors performing private security functions in an area of combat operations or other significant military operations; and

"(iv) the reporting of incidents in which—

"(I) a weapon is discharged by personnel performing private security functions in an area of combat operations or other significant military operations;

"(II) personnel performing private security functions in an area of combat operations or other significant military operations are killed or injured; or

"(III) persons are killed or injured, or property is destroyed, as a result of conduct by contractor personnel;

"(B) ensure that the contractor and all employees of the contractor or any subcontractor who are responsible for performing private security functions under such contract comply with—

"(i) qualification, training, screening (including, if practicable, through background checks), and security requirements established by the Secretary of Defense for personnel performing private security functions in an area of combat operations or other significant military operations;

"(ii) applicable laws and regulations of the United States and the host country, and applicable treaties and international agreements, regarding the performance of the functions of the contractor;

"(iii) orders, directives, and instructions issued by the applicable commander of a combatant command relating to equipment, force protection, security, health, safety, or relations and interaction with locals; and

"(iv) rules on the use of force issued by the applicable commander of a combatant command for personnel performing private security functions in an area of combat operations or other significant military operations;

"(C) cooperate with any investigation conducted by the Department of Defense pursuant to subsection (a)(2)(E) by providing access to employees of the contractor and relevant information in the possession of the contractor regarding the incident concerned; and

"(D) ensure that the contract clause is included in subcontracts awarded to any subcontractor at any tier who is responsible for performing private security functions under the contract.

"(3) Noncompliance of personnel with clause.—The contracting officer for a covered contract may direct the contractor, at its own expense, to remove or replace any personnel performing private security functions in an area of combat operations or other significant military operations who violate or fail to comply with applicable requirements of the clause required by this subsection. If the violation or failure to comply is a gross violation or failure or is repeated, the contract may be terminated for default.

"(4) Applicability.—The contract clause required by this subsection shall be included in all covered contracts awarded on or after the date that is 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 28, 2008]. Federal agencies shall make best efforts to provide for the inclusion of the contract clause required by this subsection in covered contracts awarded before such date.

"(5) Inspector general report on pilot program on imposition of fines for noncompliance of personnel with clause.—Not later than March 30, 2008, the Inspector General of the Department of Defense shall submit to Congress a report assessing the feasibility and advisability of carrying out a pilot program for the imposition of fines on contractors for personnel who violate or fail to comply with applicable requirements of the clause required by this section as a mechanism for enhancing the compliance of such personnel with the clause. The report shall include—

"(A) an assessment of the feasibility and advisability of carrying out the pilot program; and

"(B) if the Inspector General determines that carrying out the pilot program is feasible and advisable—

"(i) recommendations on the range of contracts and subcontracts to which the pilot program should apply; and

"(ii) a schedule of fines to be imposed under the pilot program for various types of personnel actions or failures.

"(c) Oversight.—It shall be the responsibility of the head of the contracting activity responsible for each covered contract to ensure that the contracting activity takes appropriate steps to assign sufficient oversight personnel to the contract to—

"(1) ensure that the contractor responsible for performing private security functions under such contract comply with the regulatory requirements prescribed pursuant to subsection (a) and the contract requirements established pursuant to subsection (b); and

"(2) make the determinations required by subsection (d).

"(d) Remedies.—The failure of a contractor under a covered contract to comply with the requirements of the regulations prescribed under subsection (a) or the contract clause inserted in a covered contract pursuant to subsection (b), as determined by the contracting officer for the covered contract—

"(1) shall be included in appropriate databases of past performance and considered in any responsibility determination or evaluation of the past performance of the contractor for the purpose of a contract award decision, as provided in section 1126 of title 41, United States Code;

"(2) in the case of an award fee contract—

"(A) shall be considered in any evaluation of contract performance by the contractor for the relevant award fee period; and

"(B) may be a basis for reducing or denying award fees for such period, or for recovering all or part of award fees previously paid for such period; and

"(3) in the case of a failure to comply that is severe, prolonged, or repeated—

"(A) shall be referred to the suspension or debarment official for the appropriate agency; and

"(B) may be a basis for suspension or debarment of the contractor.

"(e) Rule of Construction.—The duty of a contractor under a covered contract to comply with the requirements of the regulations prescribed under subsection (a) and the contract clause inserted into a covered contract pursuant to subsection (b), and the availability of the remedies provided in subsection (d), shall not be reduced or diminished by the failure of a higher or lower tier contractor under such contract to comply with such requirements, or by a failure of the contracting activity to provide the oversight required by subsection (c).

"(f) Areas of Combat Operations or Other Significant Military Operations.—

"(1) Designation.—The Secretary of Defense shall designate the areas constituting either an area of combat operations or other significant military operations for purposes of this section by not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 28, 2008]. In making designations under this paragraph, the Secretary shall ensure that an area is not designated in whole or part as both an area of combat operations and an area of other significant military operations.

"(2) Other significant military operations.—For purposes of this section, the term 'other significant military operations' means activities, other than combat operations, as part of an overseas contingency operation that are carried out by United States Armed Forces in an uncontrolled or unpredictable high-threat environment where personnel performing security functions may be called upon to use deadly force.

"(3) Particular areas.—Iraq and Afghanistan shall be included in the areas designated as an area of combat operations or other significant military operations under paragraph (1).

"(4) Additional areas.—The Secretary may designate any additional area as an area constituting an area of combat operations or other significant military operations for purposes of this section if the Secretary determines that the presence or potential of combat operations or other significant military operations in such area warrants designation of such area as an area of combat operations or other significant military operations for purposes of this section.

"(5) Modification or elimination of designation.—The Secretary may modify or cease the designation of an area under this subsection as an area of combat operations or other significant military operations if the Secretary determines that combat operations or other significant military operations are no longer ongoing in such area.

"(g) Limitation.—With respect to an area of other significant military operations, the requirements of this section shall apply only upon agreement of the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State. An agreement of the Secretaries under this subsection may be made only on an area-by-area basis. With respect to an area of combat operations, the requirements of this section shall always apply.

"(h) Exceptions.—

"(1) Intelligence activities.—The requirements of this section shall not apply to contracts entered into by elements of the intelligence community in support of intelligence activities.

"(2) Nongovernmental organizations.—The requirements of this section shall not apply to a nonprofit nongovernmental organization receiving grants or cooperative agreements for activities conducted within an area of other significant military operations if the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State agree that such organization may be exempted. An exemption may be granted by the agreement of the Secretaries under this paragraph on an organization-by-organization or area-by-area basis. Such an exemption may not be granted with respect to an area of combat operations.

#### "SEC. 863. ANNUAL JOINT REPORT ON CONTRACTING IN IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN. ####

"(a) In General.—Except as provided in subsection (f), every 12 months, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of State, and the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development shall submit to the relevant committees of Congress a joint report on contracts in Iraq or Afghanistan.

"(b) Primary Matters Covered.—A report under this section shall, at a minimum, cover the following with respect to contracts in Iraq and Afghanistan during the reporting period:

"(1) Total number of contracts awarded.

"(2) Total number of active contracts.

"(3) Total value of all contracts awarded.

"(4) Total value of active contracts.

"(5) The extent to which such contracts have used competitive procedures.

"(6) Percentage of contracts awarded on a competitive basis as compared to established goals for competition in contingency contracting actions.

"(7) Total number of contractor personnel working on contracts at the end of each quarter of the reporting period.

"(8) Total number of contractor personnel who are performing security functions at the end of each quarter of the reporting period.

"(9) Total number of contractor personnel killed or wounded.

"(c) Additional Matters Covered.—A report under this section shall also cover the following:

"(1) The sources of information and data used to compile the information required under subsection (b).

"(2) A description of any known limitations of the data reported under subsection (b), including known limitations of the methodology and data sources used to compile the report.

"(3) Any plans for strengthening collection, coordination, and sharing of information on contracts in Iraq and Afghanistan through improvements to the common databases identified under section 861(b)(4).

"(d) Reporting Period.—A report under this section shall cover a period of not less than 12 months.

"(e) Submission of Reports.—The Secretaries and the Administrator shall submit an initial report under this section not later than February 1, 2011, and shall submit an updated report by February 1 of every year thereafter until February 1, 2015.

"(f) Exception.—If the total annual amount of obligations for contracts in Iraq and Afghanistan combined is less than $250,000,000 for the reporting period, for all three agencies combined, the Secretaries and the Administrator may submit, in lieu of a report, a letter stating the applicability of this subsection, with such documentation as the Secretaries and the Administrator consider appropriate.

"(g) Estimates.—In determining the total number of contractor personnel working on contracts under subsection (b)(6), the Secretaries and the Administrator may use estimates for any category of contractor personnel for which they determine it is not feasible to provide an actual count. The report shall fully disclose the extent to which estimates are used in lieu of an actual count.

#### "SEC. 864. DEFINITIONS AND OTHER GENERAL PROVISIONS. ####

"(a) Definitions.—In this subtitle:

"(1) Matters relating to contracting.—The term 'matters relating to contracting', with respect to contracts in Iraq and Afghanistan, means all matters relating to awarding, funding, managing, tracking, monitoring, and providing oversight to contracts and contractor personnel.

"(2) Contract in iraq or afghanistan.—The term 'contract in Iraq or Afghanistan' means a contract with the Department of Defense, the Department of State, or the United States Agency for International Development, a subcontract at any tier issued under such a contract, a task order or delivery order at any tier issued under such a contract, a grant, or a cooperative agreement (including a contract, subcontract, task order, delivery order, grant, or cooperative agreement issued by another Government agency for the Department of Defense, the Department of State, or the United States Agency for International Development), if the contract, subcontract, task order, delivery order, grant, or cooperative agreement involves worked [sic] performed in Iraq or Afghanistan for a period longer than 30 days.

"(3) Covered contract.—The term 'covered contract' means—

"(A) a contract of a Federal agency for the performance of services in an area of combat operations, as designated by the Secretary of Defense under subsection (c) of section 862;

"(B) a subcontract at any tier under such a contract;

"(C) a task order or delivery order issued under such a contract or subcontract;

"(D) a grant for the performance of services in an area of combat operations, as designated by the Secretary of Defense under subsection (c) of section 862; or

"(E) a cooperative agreement for the performance of services in such an area of combat operations.

"(4) Contractor.—The term 'contractor', with respect to a covered contract, means—

"(A) in the case of a covered contract that is a contract, subcontract, task order, or delivery order, the contractor or subcontractor carrying out the covered contract;

"(B) in the case of a covered contract that is a grant, the grantee; and

"(C) in the case of a covered contract that is a cooperative agreement, the recipient.

"(5) Contractor personnel.—The term 'contractor personnel' means any person performing work under contract for the Department of Defense, the Department of State, or the United States Agency for International Development, in Iraq or Afghanistan, including individuals and subcontractors at any tier.

"(6) Private security functions.—The term 'private security functions' means activities engaged in by a contractor under a covered contract as follows:

"(A) Guarding of personnel, facilities, or property of a Federal agency, the contractor or subcontractor, or a third party.

"(B) Any other activity for which personnel are required to carry weapons in the performance of their duties.

"(7) Relevant committees of congress.—The term 'relevant committees of Congress' means each of the following committees:

"(A) The Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives.

"(B) The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform [now Committee on Oversight and Accountability] of the House of Representatives.

"(C) The Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.

"(D) For purposes of contracts relating to the National Foreign Intelligence Program, the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.

"(b) Classified Information.—Nothing in this subtitle shall be interpreted to require the handling of classified information or information relating to intelligence sources and methods in a manner inconsistent with any law, regulation, executive order, or rule of the House of Representatives or of the Senate relating to the handling or protection of such information."

### **CHAPTER 341—ACQUISITION OF SERVICES GENERALLY** ###

Sec.
4501.Procurement of contract services: management structure.
4502.Procurement of contract services: senior officials responsible for management of acquisition of contract services.
4503.[Reserved].
4504.[Reserved].
4505.Procurement of services: tracking of purchases.
4506.Procurement of services: data analysis and requirements validation.
4507.Procurement of services: contracts for professional and technical services.
4508.Contractor performance of acquisition functions closely associated with inherently governmental functions.
4509.Contracts for advisory and assistance services: cost comparison studies.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Prior Provisions ####

A prior chapter 341 "CONTRACTING FOR PERFORMANCE OF CIVILIAN COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL TYPE FUNCTIONS", consisting of reserved section 4501, was repealed by Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §1856(b), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4273.

Another prior chapter 341 was renumbered chapter 721 of this title.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Preventing Conflicts of Interest for Entities That Provide Certain Consulting Services to the Department of Defense ####

Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title VIII, §812, Dec. 22, 2023, 137 Stat. 323, provided that:

"(a) In General.—

"(1) Certification.—Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 22, 2023], the Secretary of Defense shall amend the Department of Defense Supplement to the Federal Acquisition Regulation to require any entity that provides consulting services and is assigned a North American Industry Classification System code beginning with 5416, after the effective date of such amendment and before entering into a covered contract, to certify that—

"(A) neither the entity nor any subsidiaries or affiliates of the entity (as that term is defined in section 2.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation) hold a contract for consulting services with one or more covered foreign entities; or

"(B) the entity maintains a Conflict of Interest Mitigation plan described under subsection (b) that is auditable by a contract oversight entity.

"(2) Prohibition.—The Secretary of Defense may not enter into a covered contract with an entity described in paragraph (1) that is unable to make the certification required under such paragraph.

"(b) Conflict of Interest Mitigation Plan.—A Conflict of Interest Mitigation plan described under this subsection shall include—

"(1) an identification, where such identification is not otherwise prohibited by law or regulation, of any covered contracts of an entity described in subsection (a) with a covered foreign entity;

"(2) a written analysis, including a course of action for avoiding, neutralizing, or mitigating the actual or potential conflict of interest of such a covered contract with the Department of Defense;

"(3) a description of the procedures adopted by an entity to ensure that individuals who will be performing a covered contract will not, for the duration of such contract, also provide any consulting services to any covered foreign entity; and

"(4) a description of the procedures by which an entity will submit to the contract oversight entities a notice of an unmitigated conflict of interest with respect to a covered contract within 15 days of determining that such a conflict has arisen.

"(c) Alternative Identification of Covered Foreign Entities.—If an entity is unable to identify covered foreign entities under subsection (b)(1) due to confidentiality obligations, the entity shall identify any such covered foreign entity as an entity described in subparagraphs (A) through (F) of subsection (f)(4) in the Conflict of Interest Mitigation plan.

"(d) Notification.—Before determining to withhold an award of a covered contract based on a conflict of interest under this section that cannot be avoided or mitigated, the contracting officer for the contract shall notify the offeror of the reasons for such withholding and allow the offeror a reasonable opportunity to respond. If the contracting officer for the contract finds that it is in the best interests of the United States to award the contract notwithstanding such a conflict of interest, a request for waiver shall be submitted in accordance with section 9.503 of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations. The waiver request and decision shall be included in the contract file.

"(e) Waiver.—

"(1) Authority.—The Secretary of Defense may issue a waiver with respect to the requirements of this section for the award of a covered contract on a case-by-case basis as may be necessary in the interest of national security. The Secretary of Defense may not delegate the authority under this subsection to an official who has not been Presidentially appointed and confirmed by the Senate.

"(2) Waiver notification.—Not later than 30 days after issuing a waiver under this subsection, the Secretary of Defense shall provide a written notification to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives regarding the use of such waiver authority. The notification shall include—

"(A) the specific justification for providing the waiver;

"(B) an identification of the covered foreign entity that is the subject of the waiver request;

"(C) the number of bidders for the covered contract for which the waiver was granted;

"(D) the number of bidders for the covered contract that did not request a waiver; and

"(E) the total dollar value of the covered contract.

"(f) Definitions.—In this section:

"(1) The term 'consulting services' has the meaning given the term 'advisory and assistance services' in section 2.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, except that the term does not include the provision of products or services related to—

"(A) compliance with legal, audit, accounting, tax, reporting, or other requirements of the laws and standards of countries; or

"(B) participation in a judicial, legal, or equitable dispute resolution proceeding.

"(2) The term 'contract oversight entity' means any of the following:

"(A) The contracting officer.

"(B) The contracting officer representative.

"(C) The Defense Contract Management Agency.

"(D) The Defense Contract Audit Agency.

"(E) The Office of Inspector General of the Department of Defense or any subcomponent of such office.

"(F) The Government Accountability Office.

"(3) The term 'covered contract' means a contract of the Department of Defense for consulting services.

"(4) The term 'covered foreign entity' means any of the following:

"(A) The Government of the People's Republic of China, the Chinese Communist Party, the People's Liberation Army, the Ministry of State Security, or other security service or intelligence agency of the People's Republic of China.

"(B) The Government of the Russian Federation or any entity sanctioned by the Secretary of the Treasury under Executive Order 13662 titled 'Blocking Property of Additional Persons Contributing to the Situation in Ukraine' (79 Fed. Reg. 16169) [listed in a table under section 1701 of Title 50, War and National Defense].

"(C) The government of any country if the Secretary of State determines that such government has repeatedly provided support for acts of international terrorism pursuant to any of the following:

"(i) Section 1754(c)(1)(A) of the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 (50 U.S.C. 4318(c)(1)(A)) [sic; probably should be "(50 U.S.C. 4813(c)(1)(A))"].

"(ii) Section 620A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2371).

"(iii) Section 40 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2780).

"(iv) Any other provision of law.

"(D) Any entity included on any of the following lists maintained by the Department of Commerce:

"(i) The Entity List set forth in Supplement No. 4 to part 744 of the Export Administration Regulations.

"(ii) The Denied Persons List as described in section 764.3(a)(2) of the Export Administration Regulations.

"(iii) The Unverified List set forth in Supplement No. 6 to part 744 of the Export Administration Regulations.

"(iv) The Military End User List set forth in Supplement No. 7 to part 744 of the Export Administration Regulations.

"(E) Any entity identified by the Secretary of Defense pursuant to section 1237(b) of the Strom Thurmond National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1999 (Public Law 105–261; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note).

"(F) Any entity on the Non-SDN Chinese Military-Industrial Complex Companies List (NS–CMIC List) maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury under Executive Order 14032 (86 Fed. Reg. 30145; relating to addressing the threat from securities investments that finance certain companies of the People's Republic of China), or any successor order."

#### Contracts for Studies, Analysis, or Consulting Services Entered Into Without Competition on the Basis of an Unsolicited Proposal ####

Pub. L. 114–113, div. C, title VIII, §8039, Dec. 18, 2015, 129 Stat. 2359, provided that:

"None of the funds appropriated by this Act [div. C of Pub. L. 114–113, see Tables for classification] and hereafter shall be available for a contract for studies, analysis, or consulting services entered into without competition on the basis of an unsolicited proposal unless the head of the activity responsible for the procurement determines—

"(1) as a result of thorough technical evaluation, only one source is found fully qualified to perform the proposed work;

"(2) the purpose of the contract is to explore an unsolicited proposal which offers significant scientific or technological promise, represents the product of original thinking, and was submitted in confidence by one source; or

"(3) the purpose of the contract is to take advantage of unique and significant industrial accomplishment by a specific concern, or to insure that a new product or idea of a specific concern is given financial support: *Provided*, That this limitation shall not apply to contracts in an amount of less than $25,000, contracts related to improvements of equipment that is in development or production, or contracts as to which a civilian official of the Department of Defense, who has been confirmed by the Senate, determines that the award of such contract is in the interest of the national defense."

#### Competition for Religious Services Contracts ####

Pub. L. 114–92, div. A, title VIII, §898, Nov. 25, 2015, 129 Stat. 955, provided that: "The Department of Defense may not preclude a non-profit organization from competing for a contract for religious related services on a United States military installation."

#### Requirements for Risk Assessments Related to Contractor Performance ####

Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title VIII, §846, Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 1848, provided that:

"(a) Risk Assessments for Contractor Performance in Operational or Contingency Plans.—The Secretary of Defense shall require that a risk assessment on reliance on contractors be included in operational or contingency plans developed by a commander of a combatant command in executing the responsibilities prescribed in section 164 of title 10, United States Code. Such risk assessments shall address, at a minimum, the potential risks listed in subsection (c).

"(b) Comprehensive Risk Assessments and Mitigation Plans for Contractor Performance in Support of Overseas Contingency Operations.—

"(1) In general.—Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), not later than six months after the commencement or designation of a contingency operation outside the United States that includes or is expected to include combat operations, the head of each covered agency shall perform a comprehensive risk assessment and develop a risk mitigation plan for operational and political risks associated with contractor performance of critical functions in support of the operation for such covered agency.

"(2) Exceptions.—Except as provided in paragraph (3), a risk assessment and risk mitigation plan shall not be required under paragraph (1) for an overseas contingency operation if—

"(A) the operation is not expected to continue for more than one year; and

"(B) the total amount of obligations for contracts for support of the operation for the covered agency is not expected to exceed $250,000,000.

"(3) Termination of exceptions.—Notwithstanding paragraph (2), the head of a covered agency shall perform a risk assessment and develop a risk mitigation plan under paragraph (1) for an overseas contingency operation with regard to which a risk assessment and risk mitigation plan has not previously been performed under paragraph (1) not later than 60 days after the date on which—

"(A) the operation has continued for more than one year; or

"(B) the total amount of obligations for contracts for support of the operation for the covered agency exceeds $250,000,000.

"(c) Comprehensive Risk Assessments.—A comprehensive risk assessment under subsection (b) shall consider, at a minimum, risks relating to the following:

"(1) The goals and objectives of the operation (such as risks from contractor behavior or performance that may injure innocent members of the local population or offend their sensibilities).

"(2) The continuity of the operation (such as risks from contractors refusing to perform or being unable to perform when there may be no timely replacements available).

"(3) The safety of military and civilian personnel of the United States if the presence or performance of contractor personnel creates unsafe conditions or invites attack.

"(4) The safety of contractor personnel employed by the covered agency.

"(5) The managerial control of the Government over the operation (such as risks from over-reliance on contractors to monitor other contractors or inadequate means for Government personnel to monitor contractor performance).

"(6) The critical organic or core capabilities of the Government, including critical knowledge or institutional memory of key operations areas and subject-matter expertise.

"(7) The ability of the Government to control costs, avoid organizational or personal conflicts of interest, and minimize waste, fraud, and abuse.

"(d) Risk Mitigation Plans.—A risk mitigation plan under subsection (b) shall include, at a minimum, the following:

"(1) For each high-risk area identified in the comprehensive risk assessment for the operation performed under subsection (b)—

"(A) specific actions to mitigate or reduce such risk, including the development of alternative capabilities to reduce reliance on contractor performance of critical functions;

"(B) measurable milestones for the implementation of planned risk mitigation or risk reduction measures; and

"(C) a process for monitoring, measuring, and documenting progress in mitigating or reducing risk.

"(2) A continuing process for identifying and addressing new and changed risks arising in the course of the operation, including the periodic reassessment of risks and the development of appropriate risk mitigation or reduction plans for any new or changed high-risk area identified.

"(e) Critical Functions.—For purposes of this section, critical functions include, at a minimum, the following:

"(1) Private security functions, as that term is defined in section 864(a)(6) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 [Pub. L. 110–181] (10 U.S.C. 2302 note) [now 10 U.S.C. 4571 note prec.].

"(2) Training and advising Government personnel, including military and security personnel, of a host nation.

"(3) Conducting intelligence or information operations.

"(4) Any other functions that are closely associated with inherently governmental functions, including the functions set forth in section 7.503(d) of the Federal Acquisition Regulation.

"(5) Any other functions that are deemed critical to the success of the operation.

"(f) Covered Agency.—In this section, the term 'covered agency' means the Department of Defense, the Department of State, and the United States Agency for International Development."

#### Requirements for the Acquisition of Services ####

Pub. L. 111–383, div. A, title VIII, §863(a)–(h), Jan. 7, 2011, 124 Stat. 4293, 4294, as amended by Pub. L. 112–81, div. A, title IX, §933(c), Dec. 31, 2011, 125 Stat. 1544; Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title X, §1076(a)(18), Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 1949, provided that:

"(a) Establishment of Requirements Processes for the Acquisition of Services.—The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the military departments and Defense Agencies each establish a process for identifying, assessing, reviewing, and validating requirements for the acquisition of services.

"(b) Operational Requirements.—With regard to requirements for the acquisition of services in support of combatant commands and military operations, the Secretary shall ensure—

"(1) that the Chief of Staff of the Army, the Chief of Naval Operations, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, and the Commandant of the Marine Corps implement and bear chief responsibility for carrying out, within the Armed Force concerned, the process established pursuant to subsection (a) for such Armed Force; and

"(2) that commanders of unified combatant commands and other officers identified or designated as joint qualified officers have an opportunity to participate in the process of each military department to provide input on joint requirements for the acquisition of services.

"(c) Supporting Requirements.—With regard to requirements for the acquisition of services not covered by subsection (b), the Secretary shall ensure that the secretaries of the military departments and the heads of the Defense Agencies implement and bear chief responsibility for carrying out, within the military department or Defense Agency concerned, the process established pursuant to subsection (a) for such military department or Defense Agency.

"(d) Implementation Plans Required.—The Secretary shall ensure that an implementation plan is developed for each process established pursuant to subsection (a) that addresses, at a minimum, the following:

"(1) The organization of such process.

"(2) The level of command responsibility required for identifying, assessing, reviewing, and validating requirements for the acquisition of services in accordance with the requirements of this section and the categories established under section 2330(a)(1)(C) of title 10, United States Code [now 10 U.S.C. 4501(d)].

"(3) The composition of positions necessary to operate such process.

"(4) The training required for personnel engaged in such process.

"(5) The relationship between doctrine and such process.

"(6) Methods of obtaining input on joint requirements for the acquisition of services.

"(7) Procedures for coordinating with the acquisition process.

"(8) Considerations relating to opportunities for strategic sourcing.

"(9) Considerations relating to total force management policies and procedures established under section 129a of title 10, United States Code.

"(e) Matters Required in Implementation Plan.—Each plan required under subsection (d) shall provide for initial implementation of a process for identifying, assessing, reviewing, and validating requirements for the acquisition of services not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 7, 2011] and shall provide for full implementation of such process at the earliest date practicable.

"(f) Consistency With Joint Guidance.—Whenever, at any time, guidance is issued by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff relating to requirements for the acquisition of services in support of combatant commands and military operations, each process established pursuant to subsection (a) shall be revised in accordance with such joint guidance.

"(g) Definition.—The term 'requirements for the acquisition of services' means objectives to be achieved through acquisitions primarily involving the procurement of services.

"(h) Review of Supporting Requirements To Identify Savings.—The secretaries of the military departments and the heads of the Defense Agencies shall review and validate each requirement described in subsection (c) with an anticipated cost in excess of $10,000,000 with the objective of identifying unneeded or low priority requirements that can be reduced or eliminated, with the savings transferred to higher priority objectives. Savings identified and transferred to higher priority objectives through review and revalidation under this subsection shall count toward the savings objectives established in the June 4, 2010, guidance of the Secretary of Defense on improved operational efficiencies and the annual reduction in funding for service support contractors required by the August 16, 2010, guidance of the Secretary of Defense on efficiency initiatives. As provided by the Secretary, cost avoidance shall not count toward these objectives."

#### Independent Management Reviews of Contracts for Services ####

Pub. L. 110–181, div. A, title VIII, §808, Jan. 28, 2008, 122 Stat. 215, as amended by Pub. L. 111–383, div. A, title X, §1075(f)(3), Jan. 7, 2011, 124 Stat. 4376; Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §812(b)(23), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1849, provided that:

"(a) Guidance and Instructions.—Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 28, 2008], the Secretary of Defense shall issue guidance, with detailed implementation instructions, for the Department of Defense to provide for periodic independent management reviews of contracts for services. The independent management review guidance and instructions issued pursuant to this subsection shall be designed to evaluate, at a minimum—

"(1) contract performance in terms of cost, schedule, and requirements;

"(2) the use of contracting mechanisms, including the use of competition, the contract structure and type, the definition of contract requirements, cost or pricing methods, the award and negotiation of task orders, and management and oversight mechanisms;

"(3) the contractor's use, management, and oversight of subcontractors;

"(4) the staffing of contract management and oversight functions; and

"(5) the extent of any pass-throughs, and excessive pass-through charges (as defined in section 852 of the John Warner National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 [Pub. L. 109–364, 10 U.S.C. 3761 note prec.]), by the contractor.

"(b) Additional Subject of Review.—In addition to the matters required by subsection (a), the guidance and instructions issued pursuant to subsection (a) shall provide for procedures for the periodic review of contracts under which one contractor provides oversight for services performed by other contractors. In particular, the procedures shall be designed to evaluate, at a minimum—

"(1) the extent of the agency's reliance on the contractor to perform acquisition functions closely associated with inherently governmental functions as defined in section 2383(b)(3) of title 10, United States Code [now 10 U.S.C. 4508(b)(3)]; and

"(2) the financial interest of any prime contractor performing acquisition functions described in paragraph (1) in any contract or subcontract with regard to which the contractor provided advice or recommendations to the agency.

"(c) Elements.—The guidance and instructions issued pursuant to subsection (a) shall address, at a minimum—

"(1) the contracts subject to independent management reviews, including any applicable thresholds and exceptions;

"(2) the frequency with which independent management reviews shall be conducted;

"(3) the composition of teams designated to perform independent management reviews;

"(4) any phase-in requirements needed to ensure that qualified staff are available to perform independent management reviews;

"(5) procedures for tracking the implementation of recommendations made by independent management review teams; and

"(6) procedures for developing and disseminating lessons learned from independent management reviews."

[(d) Repealed. Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §812(b)(23), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1849.]

#### Limitation on Contracts for the Acquisition of Certain Services ####

Pub. L. 109–364, div. A, title VIII, §832, Oct. 17, 2006, 120 Stat. 2331, as amended by Pub. L. 110–181, div. A, title VIII, §883, Jan. 28, 2008, 122 Stat. 264; Pub. L. 110–417, [div. A], title X, §1061(b)(5), Oct. 14, 2008, 122 Stat. 4613; Pub. L. 113–291, div. A, title X, §1071(b)(3)(A), Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3506, provided that:

"(a) Limitation.—Except as provided in subsection (b), the Secretary of Defense may not enter into a service contract to acquire a military flight simulator.

"(b) Waiver.—The Secretary of Defense may waive subsection (a) with respect to a contract if the Secretary—

"(1) determines that a waiver is in the national interest; and

"(2) provides to the congressional defense committees [Committees on Armed Services and Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives] an economic analysis as described in subsection (c) at least 30 days before the waiver takes effect.

"(c) Economic Analysis.—The economic analysis provided under subsection (b) shall include, at a minimum, the following:

"(1) A clear explanation of the need for the contract.

"(2) An examination of at least two alternatives for fulfilling the requirements that the contract is meant to fulfill, including the following with respect to each alternative:

"(A) A rationale for including the alternative.

"(B) A cost estimate of the alternative and an analysis of the quality of each cost estimate.

"(C) A discussion of the benefits to be realized from the alternative.

"(D) A best value determination of each alternative and a detailed explanation of the life-cycle cost calculations used in the determination.

"(d) Definitions.—In this section:

"(1) The term 'military flight simulator' means any major system to simulate the form, fit, and function of a military aircraft that has no commonly available commercial variant.

"(2) The term 'service contract' means any contract entered into by the Department of Defense the principal purpose of which is to furnish services in the United States through the use of service employees.

"(3) The term 'service employees' has the meaning provided in section 6701(3) of title 41, United States Code.

"(e) Effect on Existing Contracts.—The limitation in subsection (a) does not apply to any service contract of a military department to acquire a military flight simulator, or to any renewal or extension of, or follow-on contract to, such a contract, if—

"(1) the contract was in effect as of October 17, 2006;

"(2) the number of flight simulators to be acquired under the contract (or renewal, extension, or follow-on) will not result in the total number of flight simulators acquired by the military department concerned through service contracts to exceed the total number of flight simulators to be acquired under all service contracts of such department for such simulators in effect as of October 17, 2006; and

"(3) in the case of a renewal or extension of, or follow-on contract to, the contract, the Secretary of the military department concerned provides to the congressional defense committees a written notice of the decision to exercise an option to renew or extend the contract, or to issue a solicitation for bids or proposals using competitive procedures for a follow-on contract, and an economic analysis as described in subsection (c) supporting the decision, at least 30 days before carrying out such decision."

#### Improvements in Procurements of Services ####

Pub. L. 106–398, §1 [[div. A], title VIII, §821], Oct. 30, 2000, 114 Stat. 1654, 1654A–217, as amended by Pub. L. 108–136, div. A, title XIV, §1431(c), Nov. 24, 2003, 117 Stat. 1672; Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §836(f)(2), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1871, provided that:

"(a) Preference for Performance-Based Service Contracting.—Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 30, 2000], the Federal Acquisition Regulation issued in accordance with sections 6 and 25 of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act ([former] 41 U.S.C. 405 and 421) [see 41 U.S.C. 1121 and 1303] shall be revised to establish a preference for use of contracts and task orders for the purchase of services in the following order of precedence:

"(1) A performance-based contract or performance-based task order that contains firm fixed prices for the specific tasks to be performed.

"(2) Any other performance-based contract or performance-based task order.

"(3) Any contract or task order that is not a performance-based contract or a performance-based task order.

"[(b) Repealed. Pub. L. 108–136, div. A, title XIV, §1431(c), Nov. 24, 2003, 117 Stat. 1672.]

"(c) Centers of Excellence in Service Contracting.—Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 30, 2000], the Secretary of each military department shall establish at least one center of excellence in contracting for services. Each center of excellence shall assist the acquisition community by identifying, and serving as a clearinghouse for, best practices in contracting for services in the public and private sectors.

"(d) Enhanced Training in Service Contracting.—(1) The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that classes focusing specifically on contracting for services are offered by the Defense Acquisition University and the Defense Systems Management College and are otherwise available to contracting personnel throughout the Department of Defense.

"(2) The Secretary of each military department and the head of each Defense Agency shall ensure that the personnel of the department or agency, as the case may be, who are responsible for the awarding and management of contracts for services receive appropriate training that is focused specifically on contracting for services.

"(e) Definitions.—In this section:

"(1) The term 'performance-based', with respect to a contract, a task order, or contracting, means that the contract, task order, or contracting, respectively, includes the use of performance work statements that set forth contract requirements in clear, specific, and objective terms with measurable outcomes.

"(2) The term 'Defense Agency' has the meaning given the term in section 101(a)(11) of title 10, United States Code."

