
### §3857. Remedies not affected ###

§3857. Remedies not affected

#### (a) In general ####

Nothing in this chapter limits, denies, amends, modifies, or repeals any other remedy available to the United States.

#### (b) Relationship to State and local law ####

Nothing in this chapter limits, denies, amends, modifies, or repeals any rights under existing law, of any State, territory, or possession of the United States, or any political subdivision thereof, to regulate any antifouling system. Compliance with the requirements of a State, territory, or possession of the United States, or political subdivision thereof related to antifouling paint or any other antifouling system does not relieve any person of the obligation to comply with this chapter.

(Pub. L. 111–281, title X, §1047, Oct. 15, 2010, 124 Stat. 3031.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original "this title", meaning title X of Pub. L. 111–281, Oct. 15, 2010, 124 Stat. 3023, which enacted this chapter and repealed chapter 37 (§2401 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of title X to the Code, see Tables.

### **CHAPTER 52—WATER INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE AND INNOVATION** ###

Sec.
3901.Definitions.
3902.Authority to provide assistance.
3903.Applications.
3904.Eligible entities.
3905.Projects eligible for assistance.
3906.Activities eligible for assistance.
3907.Determination of eligibility and project selection.
3908.Secured loans.
3909.Program administration.
3910.State, tribal, and local permits.
3911.Regulations.
3912.Funding.
3913.Reports on program implementation.
3914.Requirements.
3915.Outreach plan.

