
### §9689. Reference ###

§9689. Reference

With respect to any function transferred under this subchapter (including under a reorganization plan under section 9682 of this title) and exercised on or after October 5, 2018, reference in any other Federal law to any department, commission, or agency or any officer or office the functions of which are so transferred shall be deemed to refer to the Corporation or official or component of the Corporation to which that function is so transferred.

(Pub. L. 115–254, div. F, title VI, §1469, Oct. 5, 2018, 132 Stat. 3515.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

This subchapter, referred to in text, was in the original "this title", meaning title VI (§§1461–1470) of div. F of Pub. L. 115–254, Oct. 5, 2018, 132 Stat. 3510, which is classified principally to this subchapter and which repealed title IV of chapter 2 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2191 et seq.), other than subsections (g), (l), (m), and (n) of section 237 thereof (22 U.S.C. 2197(g), (l), (m), (n)), among other amendments. For complete classification of title VI to the Code, see Tables.

### **CHAPTER 104—VENEZUELA ASSISTANCE** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—SUPPORT FOR THE INTERIM PRESIDENT OF VENEZUELA AND RECOGNITION OF THE VENEZUELAN NATIONAL ASSEMBLY ####

Sec.
9701.Findings; sense of Congress in support of the Interim President of Venezuela.
9702.Recognition of Venezuela's democratically elected National Assembly.
9703.Advancing a negotiated solution to Venezuela's crisis.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—HUMANITARIAN RELIEF FOR VENEZUELA ####

9711.Humanitarian relief for the Venezuelan people.
9712.Support for efforts at the United Nations on the humanitarian crisis in Venezuela.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—ADDRESSING REGIME COHESION ####

9721.Additional restrictions on visas.
9722.Waiver for sanctioned officials that recognize the Interim President of Venezuela.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—RESTORING DEMOCRACY AND ADDRESSING THE POLITICAL CRISIS IN VENEZUELA ####

9731.Support for international election observation and democratic civil society.
#### SUBCHAPTER V—SUPPORTING THE RECONSTRUCTION OF VENEZUELA ####

9741.Recovering assets stolen from the Venezuelan people.
#### SUBCHAPTER VI—RESTORING THE RULE OF LAW IN VENEZUELA ####

9751.Developing and implementing a coordinated sanctions strategy with partners in the Western Hemisphere and the European Union.
9752.Concerns over PDVSA transactions with Rosneft.
9753.Countering Russian influence in Venezuela.
9754.Restriction on export of covered articles and services to certain security forces of Venezuela.
#### SUBCHAPTER VII—MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS ####

9761.Congressional briefings.
9762.Prohibition on construction of provisions of this chapter as an authorization for the use of military force.
9763.Termination.

### SUBCHAPTER I—SUPPORT FOR THE INTERIM PRESIDENT OF VENEZUELA AND RECOGNITION OF THE VENEZUELAN NATIONAL ASSEMBLY ###

