
### §44748. Aircraft dispatching ###

§44748. Aircraft dispatching

(a) Aircraft Dispatching Certificate.—No person may serve as an aircraft dispatcher for an air carrier unless such person holds the appropriate aircraft dispatcher certificate issued by the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration.

(b) Proof of Certification.—Upon the request of the Administrator or an authorized representative of the National Transportation Safety Board, or other appropriate Federal agency, a person who holds such a certificate, and is performing dispatching, shall present the certificate for inspection.

(c) Dispatch Centers and Flight Following Centers.—

(1) Establishment.—Each air carrier shall establish and maintain sufficient dispatch centers and flight following centers necessary to maintain operational control of each flight of the air carrier at all times.

(2) Requirements.—An air carrier shall ensure that each dispatch center and flight following center of the air carrier—

(A) has a sufficient number of aircraft dispatchers on duty at the dispatch center or flight following center to ensure proper operational control of each flight of the air carrier at all times;

(B) has the necessary equipment, in good repair, to maintain proper operational control of each flight of the air carrier at all times; and

(C) includes the presence of physical security and cybersecurity protections to prevent unauthorized access to the dispatch center or flight following center or to the operations of either such center.

(d) Prohibition.—

(1) In general.—Except as provided in paragraph (2), an air carrier may not dispatch aircraft from any location other than the dispatch center or flight following center of the air carrier.

(2) Emergency authority.—In the event of an emergency or other event that renders a dispatch center or a flight following center inoperable, an air carrier may dispatch aircraft from a location other than the dispatch center or flight following center of the air carrier for a period of time not to exceed 14 consecutive days per location without approval of the Administrator.

(Added Pub. L. 118–63, title IV, §420(b)(1), May 16, 2024, 138 Stat. 1164.)

### **CHAPTER 448—UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS** ###

Sec.
44801.Definitions.
44802.Integration of civil unmanned aircraft systems into national airspace system.
44803.Unmanned aircraft system test ranges.
44804.Unmanned aircraft in the Arctic.
44805.Small unmanned aircraft safety standards.
44806.Public unmanned aircraft systems and public safety use of tethered unmanned aircraft systems.
44807.Special authority for certain unmanned aircraft systems.
44808.Carriage of property by small unmanned aircraft systems for compensation or hire.
44809.Exception for limited recreational operations of unmanned aircraft.
44810.Airport safety and airspace hazard mitigation and enforcement.
44811.Beyond visual line of sight operations for unmanned aircraft systems.
44812.Temporary flight restrictions for unmanned aircraft.
44813.Center of Excellence for Unmanned Aircraft Systems.
44814.ASSUREd Safe credentialing authority.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2024**—Pub. L. 118–63, title IX, §§902(b), 925(b)(2), 926(b), 930(b), 935(b), title X, §§1006(b), 1007(b), May 16, 2024, 138 Stat. 1341, 1360, 1361, 1367, 1372, 1389, added items 44803, 44804, 44806, and 44811 to 44814 and struck out former items 44803 "Unmanned aircraft system test ranges", 44804 "Small unmanned aircraft in the Arctic", and 44806 "Public unmanned aircraft systems".

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title III, §§343(b), 344(b), 345(c), 346(b)(1), 347(b)(1), 348(b), 349(b)(1), 383(b)(1), Oct. 5, 2018, 132 Stat. 3290, 3291, 3293, 3295–3297, 3300, 3322, added items 44803 to 44810.

