
### §14336. New product or use ###

§14336. New product or use

On petition of a person that proposes a new use for a battery technology described in this subchapter or the use of a battery described in this subchapter in a new product, the Administrator may exempt from this subchapter the new use of the technology or the use of such a battery in the new product on the condition, if appropriate, that there exist reasonable safeguards to ensure that the resulting battery or product without an easily removable battery will not be disposed of in an incinerator, composting facility, or landfill (other than a facility regulated under subtitle C of the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6921 et seq.)).

(Pub. L. 104–142, title II, §207, May 13, 1996, 110 Stat. 1336.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

The Solid Waste Disposal Act, referred to in text, is title II of Pub. L. 89–272, Oct. 20, 1965, 79 Stat. 997, as amended generally by Pub. L. 94–580, §2, Oct. 21, 1976, 90 Stat. 2795. Subtitle C of the Act is classified generally to subchapter III (§6921 et seq.) of chapter 82 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 6901 of this title and Tables.

### **CHAPTER 138—ASSISTED SUICIDE FUNDING RESTRICTION** ###

Sec.
14401.Findings and purpose.
14402.Restriction on use of Federal funds under health care programs.
14403.Restriction on use of Federal funds under certain grant programs.
14404.Restriction on use of Federal funds by advocacy programs.
14405.Restriction on use of other Federal funds.
14406.Clarification with respect to advance directives.
14407.Application to District of Columbia.
14408.Relation to other laws.

