
### §4523. Award authority ###

§4523. Award authority

(a) An agency may pay a cash award, up to 5 percent of basic pay, to any law enforcement officer employed in or under such agency who possesses and makes substantial use of 1 or more foreign languages in the performance of official duties.

(b) Awards under this section shall be paid under regulations prescribed by the head of the agency involved (or designee thereof). Regulations prescribed by an agency head (or designee) under this subsecton [1](#4523_1_target) shall include—

(1) procedures under which foreign language proficiency shall be ascertained;

(2) criteria for the selection of individuals for recognition under this section; and

(3) any other provisions which may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this subchapter.

(Added Pub. L. 101–509, title V, §529 [title IV, §408(a)], Nov. 5, 1990, 104 Stat. 1427, 1467.)

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date ####

Section effective Jan. 1, 1992, see section 529 [title IV, §408(d)] of Pub. L. 101–509, set out as a note under section 4521 of this title.

[1 So in original. Probably should be "subsection".](#4523_1)

### **CHAPTER 47—PERSONNEL RESEARCH PROGRAMS AND DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS** ###

Sec.
4701.Definitions.
4702.Research programs.
4703.Demonstration projects.
4704.Allocation of funds.
4705.Regulations.
[4706.Renumbered.]

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**1998**—Pub. L. 105–362, title XIII, §1302(b)(2)(B)(ii), Nov. 10, 1998, 112 Stat. 3293, added item 4705 and struck out former items 4705 "Reports" and 4706 "Regulations".

