
### §46320. Interference with wildfire suppression, law enforcement, or emergency response effort by operation of unmanned aircraft ###

§46320. Interference with wildfire suppression, law enforcement, or emergency response effort by operation of unmanned aircraft

(a) In General.—Except as provided in subsection (b), an individual who operates an unmanned aircraft and in so doing knowingly or recklessly interferes with a wildfire suppression, law enforcement, or emergency response effort is liable to the United States Government for a civil penalty of not more than $20,000.

(b) Exceptions.—This section does not apply to the operation of an unmanned aircraft conducted by a unit or agency of the United States Government or of a State, tribal, or local government (including any individual conducting such operation pursuant to a contract or other agreement entered into with the unit or agency) for the purpose of protecting the public safety and welfare, including firefighting, law enforcement, or emergency response.

(c) Compromise and Setoff.—

(1) Compromise.—The United States Government may compromise the amount of a civil penalty imposed under this section.

(2) Setoff.—The United States Government may deduct the amount of a civil penalty imposed or compromised under this section from the amounts the Government owes the person liable for the penalty.

(d) Definitions.—In this section, the following definitions apply:

(1) Wildfire.—The term "wildfire" has the meaning given that term in section 2 of the Emergency Wildfire Suppression Act (42 U.S.C. 1856m).

(2) Wildfire suppression.—The term "wildfire suppression" means an effort to contain, extinguish, or suppress a wildfire.

(Added Pub. L. 114–190, title II, §2205(a), July 15, 2016, 130 Stat. 630.)

### **CHAPTER 465—SPECIAL AIRCRAFT JURISDICTION OF THE UNITED STATES** ###

Sec.
46501.Definitions.
46502.Aircraft piracy.
46503.Interference with security screening personnel.
46504.Interference with flight crew members and attendants.
46505.Carrying a weapon or explosive on an aircraft.
46506.Application of certain criminal laws to acts on aircraft.
46507.False information and threats.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title V, §539(m), div. K, title I, §1991(h)(2), Oct. 5, 2018, 132 Stat. 3371, 3645, made identical amendments, striking out item 46503 "Repealed".

**2001**—Pub. L. 107–71, title I, §114(b), Nov. 19, 2001, 115 Stat. 623, added item 46503 "Interference with security screening personnel".

**1994**—Pub. L. 103–322, title VI, §60003(b)(1), Sept. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 1970, substituted "Repealed" for "Death penalty sentencing procedure for aircraft piracy" in item 46503.

