
### §2671. Establishment of technical assistance program ###

§2671. Establishment of technical assistance program

#### (a) Definition ####

In this section, the term "tribally designated housing entity" has the meaning given the term in section 4103 of title 25.

#### (b) In general ####

The Secretary shall, in coordination with the Office of Tribal Relations established under section 6921 [1](#2671_1_target) of this title, provide technical assistance to improve access by Tribal entities to rural development programs funded by the Department of Agriculture through available cooperative agreement authorities of the Secretary.

#### (c) Technical assistance ####

Technical assistance provided under subsection (b) shall address the unique challenge of Tribal governments, Tribal producers, Tribal businesses, Tribal business entities, and tribally designated housing entities in accessing Department of Agriculture-supported rural infrastructure, rural cooperative development, rural business and industry, rural housing, and other rural development activities.

(Pub. L. 115–334, title VI, §6302, Dec. 20, 2018, 132 Stat. 4748.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

Section 6921 of this title, referred to in subsec. (b), was in the original "section 309 of the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994", and was translated as meaning section 309 of Pub. L. 103–354, the Federal Crop Insurance Reform and Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994, to reflect the probable intent of Congress. The Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 is title II of Pub. L. 103–354, Oct. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 3209.

#### Codification ####

Section was enacted as part of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018, and not as part of title V of the Rural Development Act of 1972 which comprises this subchapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Definition of "Secretary" ####

"Secretary" means the Secretary of Agriculture, see section 2 of Pub. L. 115–334, set out as a note under section 9001 of this title.

[1 See References in Text note below.](#2671_1)

### **CHAPTER 60—EGG RESEARCH AND CONSUMER INFORMATION** ###

Sec.
2701.Congressional findings and declaration of policy.
2702.Definitions.
2703.Orders of Secretary to egg producers, etc.
2704.Notice and hearing upon proposed orders.
2705.Findings and issuance of orders.
2706.Permissive terms and conditions in orders.
2707.Required terms and conditions in orders.
2708.Referendum among egg producers.
2709.Termination or suspension of orders.
2710.Applicability of provisions to amendments to orders.
2711.Exempted egg producers and breeding hen flocks; conditions and procedures.
2712.Refund of assessment from Egg Board.
2713.Administrative review of orders; petition; hearing; judicial review.
2714.Civil enforcement proceedings.
2715.Certification of organizations; required contents of report as criteria.
2716.Regulations.
2717.Investigations by Secretary; oaths and affirmations; subpenas; judicial enforcement; contempt proceedings; service of process.
2718.Authorization of appropriations.

