
### §380. Lease of inherited allotments by superintendent ###

§380. Lease of inherited allotments by superintendent

Restricted allotments of deceased Indians may be leased, except for oil and gas mining purposes, by the superintendents of the reservation within which the lands are located (1) when the heirs or devisees of such decedents have not been determined and (2) when the heirs or devisees of the decedents have been determined, and such lands are not in use by any of the heirs and the heirs have not been able during a three-months' period to agree upon a lease by reason of the number of the heirs, their absence from the reservation, or for other cause, under such rules and regulations as the Secretary of the Interior may prescribe. The proceeds derived from such leases shall be credited to the estates or other accounts of the individuals entitled thereto in accordance with their respective interests.

(July 8, 1940, ch. 554, 54 Stat. 745.)

#### **Executive Documents** ####

#### Transfer of Functions ####

For transfer of functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of Department of the Interior, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Interior, with power to delegate, see Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1950, §§1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, 64 Stat. 1262, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

### **CHAPTER 11—IRRIGATION OF ALLOTTED LANDS** ###

Sec.
381.Irrigation lands; regulation of use of water.
382.Irrigation projects under Reclamation Act.
383.Repealed.
384.Employment of superintendents of irrigation.
385.Maintenance charges; reimbursement of construction costs; apportionment of cost.
385a.Irrigation projects; deposit of assessments as trust fund; disposition of fund.
385b.Amounts creditable to fund.
385c.Appropriation and disposition of power revenues.
386.Reimbursement of construction charges.
386a.Adjustment of reimbursable debts; construction charges.
387.Omitted.
388.Claims for damages; settlement by agreement.
389.Investigation and adjustment of irrigation charges on lands within projects on Indian reservations.
389a.Declaring lands to be temporarily nonirrigable.
389b.Elimination to permanently nonirrigable lands.
389c.Cancellation of charges in absence of lien or contract for payment.
389d.Rules and regulations.
389e.Actions taken to be included in report to Congress.
390.Concessions on reservoir sites and other lands in Indian irrigation projects; leases for agricultural, grazing, and other purposes.

