
### §126. Reports to Congress ###

§126. Reports to Congress

The Administrator of General Services, at times the Administrator considers desirable, shall submit a report to Congress on the administration of this subtitle. The report shall include any recommendation for amendment of this subtitle that the Administrator considers appropriate and shall identify any law that is obsolete because of the enactment or operation of this subtitle.

(Pub. L. 107–217, Aug. 21, 2002, 116 Stat. 1071.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 126 | 40:492. | June 30, 1949, ch. 288, title II, §212, formerly §210, 63 Stat. 393; renumbered §212, Sept. 5, 1950, ch. 849, §5(a), 64 Stat. 580. |

The words "in January of each year and" are omitted pursuant to section 3003 of the Federal Reports Elimination and Sunset Act of 1995 (31 U.S.C. 1113 note). See, also, page 174 of House Document No. 103–7.

### **CHAPTER 3—ORGANIZATION OF GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL ####

Sec.
301.Establishment.
302.Administrator and Deputy Administrator.
303.Federal Acquisition Service.
304.Federal information centers.
305.Electronic Government and information technologies.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—ADMINISTRATIVE ####

311.Personnel.
312.Transfer and use of amounts for major equipment acquisitions.[1](#CHAPTER3_1_target)
313.Tests of materials.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—FUNDS ####

321.Acquisition Services Fund.
[322.Repealed.]
323.Consumer Information Center Fund.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2006**—Pub. L. 109–313, §§2(a)(2), 3(h)(3), Oct. 6, 2006, 120 Stat. 1734, 1736, substituted "Federal Acquisition Service" for "Functions" in item 303 and "Acquisition Services Fund" for "General Supply Fund" in item 321 and struck out item 322 "Information Technology Fund".

**2002**—Pub. L. 107–347, title I, §102(a)(2), Dec. 17, 2002, 116 Stat. 2910, added item 305.

[1 Section repealed by Pub. L. 111–8 without corresponding amendment of chapter analysis.](#CHAPTER3_1)

### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL ###

