
### §30308. Nonapplication ###

§30308. Nonapplication

(a) State Law.—This chapter does not affect the law of a State regulating the right to recover for death.

(b) Internal Waters.—This chapter does not apply to the Great Lakes or waters within the territorial limits of a State.

(Pub. L. 109–304, §6(c), Oct. 6, 2006, 120 Stat. 1512.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 30308 | 46 App.:767. | Mar. 30, 1920, ch. 111, §7, 41 Stat. 538. |

In subsection (a), the words "law of a State" are substituted for "any State statute" for consistency in the revised title. The words "regulating the right to recover for death" are substituted for "giving or regulating rights of action or remedies for death" to eliminate unnecessary words.

In subsection (b), the words "or to any navigable waters in the Panama Canal Zone" are omitted because the Panama Canal Zone was transferred to the Republic of Panama.

### **CHAPTER 305—EXONERATION AND LIMITATION OF LIABILITY** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ####

Sec.
30501.Definitions.
30502.Application.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—EXONERATION AND LIMITATION OF LIABILITY ####

30521.Declaration of nature and value of goods.
30522.Loss by fire.
30523.General limit of liability.
30524.Limit of liability for personal injury or death.
30525.Apportionment of losses.
30526.Provisions requiring notice of claim or limiting time for bringing action.
30527.Provisions limiting liability for personal injury or death.
30528.Vicarious liability for medical malpractice with regard to crew.
30529.Action by owner for limitation.
30530.Liability as master, officer, or seaman not affected.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2022**—Pub. L. 117–263, div. K, title CXV, §11503(e), Dec. 23, 2022, 136 Stat. 4131, inserted subchapter headings, added item 30501 and struck out former item 30501 "Definition", and renumbered items 30503 to 30512 as 30521 to 30530, respectively.

### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ###

