
### §808. Effective date of certain rules ###

§808. Effective date of certain rules

Notwithstanding section 801—

(1) any rule that establishes, modifies, opens, closes, or conducts a regulatory program for a commercial, recreational, or subsistence activity related to hunting, fishing, or camping, or

(2) any rule which an agency for good cause finds (and incorporates the finding and a brief statement of reasons therefor in the rule issued) that notice and public procedure thereon are impracticable, unnecessary, or contrary to the public interest,

shall take effect at such time as the Federal agency promulgating the rule determines.

(Added Pub. L. 104–121, title II, §251, Mar. 29, 1996, 110 Stat. 874.)

### **CHAPTER 9—EXECUTIVE REORGANIZATION** ###

Sec.
901.Purpose.
902.Definitions.
903.Reorganization plans.
904.Additional contents of reorganization plan.
905.Limitations on powers.[1](#CHAPTER9_1_target)
906.Effective date and publication of reorganization plans.
907.Effect on other laws, pending legal proceedings, and unexpended appropriations.
908.Rules of Senate and House of Representatives on reorganization plans.
909.Terms of resolution.
910.Introduction and reference of resolution.
911.Discharge of committee considering resolution.
912.Procedure after report or discharge of committee; debate; vote on final passage.
[913.Omitted.]

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**1984**—Pub. L. 98–614, §3(e)(3), Nov. 8, 1984, 98 Stat. 3193, substituted "passage" for "disapproval" in item 912.

**1977**—Pub. L. 95–17, §2, Apr. 6, 1977, 91 Stat. 29, reenacted chapter heading and items 901 to 903, 905 to 909, and 911 without change, substituted "plan" for "plans" in item 904 and "Introduction and reference of resolution" for "Reference of resolution to committee" in item 910, inserted "; vote on final disapproval" in item 912, and omitted item 913 "Decisions without debate on motion to postpone or proceed".

[1 So in original. Does not conform to section catchline.](#CHAPTER9_1)

