
### §4209. Prohibition on maintenance of actions ###

§4209. Prohibition on maintenance of actions

This chapter shall not be deemed to provide a basis for any action, either legal or equitable, by any person or class of persons challenging a Federal project, program, or other activity that may affect farmland: *Provided*, That the Governor of an affected State where a State policy or program exists to protect farmland may bring an action in the Federal district court of the district where a Federal program is proposed to enforce the requirements of section 4202 of this title and regulations issued pursuant thereto.

(Pub. L. 97–98, title XV, §1548, Dec. 22, 1981, 95 Stat. 1344; Pub. L. 99–198, title XII, §1255(b), Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1518.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**1985**—Pub. L. 99–198 substituted "by any person" for "by any State, local unit of government, or any person" and inserted proviso.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date ####

Section effective six months after Dec. 22, 1981, see section 1549 of Pub. L. 97–98, set out as a note under section 4201 of this title.

### **CHAPTER 74—FLORAL RESEARCH AND CONSUMER INFORMATION** ###

Sec.
4301.Congressional findings and declaration of policy.
4302.Definitions.
4303.Floral research and promotion orders.
4304.Notice and hearing.
4305.Finding and issuance of orders.
4306.Required terms in orders.
4307.Permissive terms in orders.
4308.Referendum; necessity, etc.
4309.Suspension and termination of orders.
4310.Amendments to orders.
4311.Exemption from assessments.
4312.Refund of assessments.
4313.Administrative and judicial review; procedures applicable.
4314.Enforcement of provisions.
4315.Certification of organizations; applicable criteria and considerations.
4316.Regulations.
4317.Investigations; subpena powers, etc.; enforcement.
4318.Separability.
4319.Authorization of appropriations.

