
### §3106. Erection, repair, or furnishing of public buildings and improvements not authorized, and certain contracts not permitted, by this division ###

§3106. Erection, repair, or furnishing of public buildings and improvements not authorized, and certain contracts not permitted, by this division

This division does not—

(1) authorize the erection, repair, or furnishing of a public building or public improvement; or

(2) permit a contract for the construction or repair of a building, road, sidewalk, sewer, main, or similar item using procedures other than sealed-bid procedures under section 3301(b)(1)(A) of this title if the conditions set forth in section 3301(b)(1)(A) of this title apply or the contract is to be performed outside the United States.

(Pub. L. 111–350, §3, Jan. 4, 2011, 124 Stat. 3745.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 3106 | 41:252(c)(1). | June 30, 1949, ch. 288, title III, §302(c)(1), 63 Stat. 393; July 12, 1952, ch. 703, §1(m), 66 Stat. 594; Pub. L. 85–800, §§2, 3, Aug. 28, 1958, 72 Stat. 966; Pub. L. 89–343, §2, Nov. 8, 1965, 79 Stat. 1303; Pub. L. 89–348, §1(2), Nov. 8, 1965, 79 Stat. 1310; Pub. L. 90–268, §4, Mar. 16, 1968, 82 Stat. 50; Pub. L. 93–356, §3, July 25, 1974, 88 Stat. 390; Pub. L. 98–191, §9(a)(1), Dec. 1, 1983, 97 Stat. 1331; Pub. L. 98–369, div. B, title VII, §2714(a)(1)(B), July 18, 1984, 98 Stat. 1184. |

In paragraph (1), the words "but such authorization shall be required in the same manner as heretofore" are omitted as unnecessary.

### **CHAPTER 33—PLANNING AND SOLICITATION** ###

Sec.
3301.Full and open competition.
3302.Requirements for purchase of property and services pursuant to multiple award contracts.
3303.Exclusion of particular source or restriction of solicitation to small business concerns.
3304.Use of noncompetitive procedures.
3305.Simplified procedures for small purchases.
3306.Planning and solicitation requirements.
3307.Preference for commercial products and commercial services.
3308.Planning for future competition in contracts for major systems.
3309.Design-build selection procedures.
3310.Quantities to order.
3311.Qualification requirement.
3312.Database on price trends of items and services under Federal contracts.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §836(b)(10)(B)(ii), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1863, substituted "Preference for commercial products and commercial services" for "Preference for commercial items" in item 3307.

**2013**—Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title VIII, §851(a)(2), Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 1855, added item 3312.

