
### §619. Definitions ###

§619. Definitions

As used in this part:

#### (1) Adult ####

The term "adult" means an individual who is not a minor child.

#### (2) Minor child ####

The term "minor child" means an individual who—

(A) has not attained 18 years of age; or

(B) has not attained 19 years of age and is a full-time student in a secondary school (or in the equivalent level of vocational or technical training).

#### (3) Fiscal year ####

The term "fiscal year" means any 12-month period ending on September 30 of a calendar year.

#### (4) Indian, Indian tribe, and tribal organization ####

#### (A) In general ####

Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the terms "Indian", "Indian tribe", and "tribal organization" have the meaning given such terms by section 5304 of title 25.

#### (B) Special rule for Indian tribes in Alaska ####

The term "Indian tribe" means, with respect to the State of Alaska, only the Metlakatla Indian Community of the Annette Islands Reserve and the following Alaska Native regional nonprofit corporations:

(i) Arctic Slope Native Association.

(ii) Kawerak, Inc.

(iii) Maniilaq Association.

(iv) Association of Village Council Presidents.

(v) Tanana Chiefs Conference.

(vi) Cook Inlet Tribal Council.

(vii) Bristol Bay Native Association.

(viii) Aleutian and Pribilof Island Association.

(ix) Chugachmuit.

(x) Tlingit Haida Central Council.

(xi) Kodiak Area Native Association.

(xii) Copper River Native Association.

#### (5) State ####

Except as otherwise specifically provided, the term "State" means the 50 States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, and American Samoa.

(Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531, title IV, §419, as added Pub. L. 104–193, title I, §103(a)(2), Aug. 22, 1996, 110 Stat. 2159.)

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date ####

Par. (4) of this section effective Oct. 1, 1996, with remainder of section effective July 1, 1997, with transition rules relating to State options to accelerate such date, rules relating to claims, actions, and proceedings commenced before such date, rules relating to closing out of accounts for terminated or substantially modified programs and continuance in office of Assistant Secretary for Family Support, and provisions relating to termination of entitlement under AFDC program, see section 116 of Pub. L. 104–193, as amended, set out as a note under section 601 of this title.

### Part B—Child and Family Services ###

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

Pub. L. 103–66, title XIII, §13711(a)(1), Aug. 10, 1993, 107 Stat. 649, substituted "Child and Family Services" for "Child Welfare Services" in part B heading.

Pub. L. 90–248, title II, §240(c), Jan. 2, 1968, 81 Stat. 911, added part B heading.

### subpart 1—stephanie tubbs jones child welfare services program ###

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

Pub. L. 110–351, title I, §102(c), Oct. 7, 2008, 122 Stat. 3956, substituted "Stephanie Tubbs Jones Child Welfare Services Program" for "Child Welfare Services" in subpart heading.

Pub. L. 103–66, title XIII, §13711(a)(1), Aug. 10, 1993, 107 Stat. 649, added subpart 1 heading.

