
### §8193. Administration ###

§8193. Administration

(a) Definitions and Rules of Construction.—For the purpose of this subchapter—

(1) The term "Attorney General" includes any person to whom the Attorney General has delegated any function pursuant to subsection (b) of this section.

(2) The term "Secretary of Labor" includes any person to whom the Secretary of Labor has delegated any function pursuant to subsection (b) of this section.

(b) Delegation.—

(1) The Attorney General may delegate to any division, officer, or employee of the Department of Justice any function conferred upon the Attorney General by this subchapter.

(2) The Secretary of Labor may delegate to any bureau, officer, or employee of the Department of Labor any function conferred upon the Secretary of Labor by this subchapter.

(c) Applications.—An application for any benefit under this subchapter may be made only—

(1) to the Secretary of Labor

(2) by

(A) any eligible officer or survivor of an eligible officer,

(B) any guardian, personal representative, or other person legally authorized to act on behalf of an eligible officer, his estate, or any of his survivors, or

(C) any association of law enforcement officers which is acting on behalf of an eligible officer or any of his survivors;

(3) within five years after the injury or death; and

(4) in such form as the Secretary of Labor may require.

(d) Consultation With Attorney General and Other Agencies.—The Secretary of Labor may refer any application received by him pursuant to this subchapter to the Attorney General for his assistance, comments and advice as to any determination required to be made pursuant to paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of section 8191. To insure that all Federal assistance under this subchapter is carried out in a coordinated manner, the Secretary of Labor is authorized to request any Federal department or agency to supply any statistics, data, or any other materials he deems necessary to carry out his functions under this subchapter. Each such department or agency is authorized to cooperate with the Secretary of Labor and, to the extent permitted by law, to furnish such materials to him.

(e) Cooperation With State Agencies.—The Secretary of Labor shall cooperate fully with the appropriate State and local officials, and shall take all other practicable measures, to assure that the benefits of this subchapter are made available to eligible officers and their survivors with a minimum of delay and difficulty.

(f) Appropriations.—There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out this subchapter.

(Added Pub. L. 90–291, §1(a), Apr. 19, 1968, 82 Stat. 99; amended Pub. L. 94–183, §2(31), Dec. 31, 1975, 89 Stat. 1058.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**1975**—Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 94–183 redesignated subsec. (e), relating to appropriations, as subsec. (f).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date ####

Section effective only with respect to personal injuries sustained on or after Apr. 19, 1968, see section 2 of Pub. L. 90–291, set out as a note under section 8191 of this title.

### **CHAPTER 83—RETIREMENT** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ####

Sec.
8301.Uniform retirement date.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—FORFEITURE OF ANNUITIES AND RETIRED PAY ####

8311.Definitions.
8312.Conviction of certain offenses.
8313.Absence from the United States to avoid prosecution.
8314.Refusal to testify.
8315.Falsifying employment applications.
8316.Refund of contributions and deposits.
8317.Repayment of annuity or retired pay properly paid; waiver.
8318.Restoration of annuity or retired pay.
8319.Removal of members of the uniformed services from rolls; restoration; reappointment.
8320.Offense or violation committed in compliance with orders.
8321.Liability of accountable employees.
8322.Effect on other statutes.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—CIVIL SERVICE RETIREMENT ####

8331.Definitions.
8332.Creditable service.
8333.Eligibility for annuity.
8334.Deductions, contributions, and deposits.
8335.Mandatory separation.
8336.Immediate retirement.
8336a.Phased retirement.
8337.Disability retirement.
8338.Deferred retirement.
8339.Computation of annuity.
8340.Cost-of-living adjustment of annuities.
8341.Survivor annuities.
8342.Lump-sum benefits; designation of beneficiary; order of precedence.
8343.Additional annuities; voluntary contributions.
8343a.Alternative forms of annuities.
8344.Annuities and pay on reemployment.
8345.Payment of benefits; commencement, termination, and waiver of annuity.
8345a.Embezzlement or conversion of payments.
8346.Exemption from legal process; recovery of payments.
8347.Administration; regulations.
8348.Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund.
8349.Offset relating to certain benefits under the Social Security Act.
8350.Retirement counseling.
8351.Participation in the Thrift Savings Plan.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2020**—Pub. L. 116–126, §2(b)(3)(A), Mar. 18, 2020, 134 Stat. 175, added item 8345a.

**2012**—Pub. L. 112–141, div. F, title I, §100121(a)(3), July 6, 2012, 126 Stat. 910, added item 8336a.

**1986**—Pub. L. 99–335, title II, §§201(b)(2), 204(b)(1), 205(b), 206(a)(2), June 6, 1986, 100 Stat. 591–594, added items 8343a, 8349, 8350, and 8351.

### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ###

