
### §2114. Administration ###

§2114. Administration

#### (a) In general ####

The Secretary shall administer this chapter in accordance with regulations that the Secretary shall develop.

#### (b) Guidelines ####

The regulations promulgated under this chapter shall include guidelines for the administration of this chapter at the Federal and State levels and shall identify the measures and activities that are eligible for cost sharing under this chapter.

#### (c) Existing mechanisms ####

Existing mechanisms shall be used to the extent possible to make payments and deliver services to the landowner under this chapter.

#### (d) Land grant universities ####

The Secretary, in consultation with State foresters or equivalent State officials, may provide assistance directly to other State and local natural resource management agencies and land grant universities in implementing this chapter in cases in which the State foresters or equivalent State officials are not able to make fund transfers to other State and local agencies.

(Pub. L. 95–313, §20, as added Pub. L. 101–624, title XII, §1223, Nov. 28, 1990, 104 Stat. 3542.)

### **CHAPTER 42—EMERGENCY CONSERVATION PROGRAM** ###

Sec.
2201.Emergency conservation program.
2202.Payments to agricultural producers for carrying out water conservation or water enhancing measures; criteria.
2202a.Cost-share requirement.
2202b.Payment limitation.
2203.Emergency watershed program.
2204.Funding and administration.
2205.Regulations for implementation of provisions.
2206.Emergency forest restoration program.

