
### §9424. Definitions ###

§9424. Definitions

In this chapter:

#### (1) Appropriate congressional committees ####

The term "appropriate congressional committees" means—

(A) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Financial Services, and the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives; and

(B) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on the Judiciary, and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate.

#### (2) Foreign person ####

The term "foreign person"—

(A) means an individual or entity that is not a United States person; and

(B) includes a foreign state (as such term is defined in section 1603 of title 28).

#### (3) Government of Iran ####

The term "Government of Iran" has the meaning given such term in section 560.304 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations, as such section was in effect on January 1, 2021.

#### (4) United States person ####

The terms "United States person" means—

(A) a United States citizen;

(B) a permanent resident alien of the United States;

(C) an entity organized under the laws of the United States or of any jurisdiction within the United States, including a foreign branch of such an entity; or

(D) a person in the United States.

#### (5) Iran-aligned entity ####

The term "Iran-aligned entity" means a foreign person that—

(A) is controlled or significantly influenced by the Government of Iran; and

(B) knowingly receives material or financial support from the Government of Iran, including Hezbollah, the Houthis, or any other proxy group that furthers Iran's national security objectives.

#### (6) Covered technology ####

The term "covered technology" means—

(A) any goods, technology, software, or related material specified in the Missile Technology Control Regime Annex, as in effect on the day before April 24, 2024; and

(B) any additional goods, technology, software, or related material added to the Missile Technology Control Regime Annex after the day before April 24, 2024.

#### (7) Family member ####

The term "family member" means—

(A) a child, grandchild, parent, grandparent, sibling, or spouse; and

(B) any spouse, widow, or widower of an individual described in subparagraph (A).

#### (8) Knowingly ####

The term "knowingly" has the meaning given that term in section 14 of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note).

#### (9) Missile Technology Control Regime ####

The term "Missile Technology Control Regime" means the policy statement, between the United States, the United Kingdom, the Federal Republic of Germany, France, Italy, Canada, and Japan, announced on April 16, 1987, to restrict sensitive missile-relevant transfers based on the Missile Technology Control Regime Annex, and any amendments thereto or expansions thereof, as in effect on the day before April 24, 2024.

#### (10) Missile Technology Control Regime Annex ####

The term "Missile Technology Control Regime Annex" means the Guidelines and Equipment and Technology Annex of the Missile Technology Control Regime, and any amendments thereto or updates thereof, as in effect on the day before April 24, 2024.

(Pub. L. 118–50, div. K, §7, Apr. 24, 2024, 138 Stat. 975.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

The Iran Sanctions Act of 1996, referred to in par. (8), is Pub. L. 104–172, Aug. 5, 1996, 110 Stat. 1541, which is set out as a note under section 1701 of Title 50, War and National Defense.

### **CHAPTER 102—COUNTERING RUSSIAN INFLUENCE IN EUROPE AND EURASIA** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—SANCTIONS AND OTHER MEASURES WITH RESPECT TO THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION ####

Sec.
9501.Findings.
9502.Sense of Congress.

#### Part A—CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW OF SANCTIONS IMPOSED WITH RESPECT TO THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION ####

9511.Congressional review of certain actions relating to sanctions imposed with respect to the Russian Federation.
#### Part B—SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION ####

9521.Definitions.
9522.Codification of sanctions relating to the Russian Federation.
9523.Modification of implementation of Executive Order No. 13662.
9524.Imposition of sanctions with respect to activities of the Russian Federation undermining cybersecurity.
9525.Imposition of sanctions with respect to persons engaging in transactions with the intelligence or defense sectors of the Government of the Russian Federation.
9526.Sanctions with respect to the development of pipelines in the Russian Federation.
9527.Sanctions with respect to investment in or facilitation of privatization of State-owned assets by the Russian Federation.
9528.Sanctions with respect to the transfer of arms and related materiel to Syria.
9529.Sanctions described.
9530.Exceptions, waiver, and termination.
9531.Exception relating to activities of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
9532.Rule of construction.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—COUNTERING RUSSIAN INFLUENCE IN EUROPE AND EURASIA ####

9541.Findings.
9542.Sense of Congress.
9543.Coordinating aid and assistance across Europe and Eurasia.
9544.Report on media organizations controlled and funded by the Government of the Russian Federation.
9545.Report on Russian Federation influence on elections in Europe and Eurasia.
9546.Ukranian energy security.
9547.Termination.
9548.Appropriate congressional committees defined.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—EUROPEAN ENERGY SECURITY AND DIVERSIFICATION ####

9561.Definitions.
9562.Statement of policy.
9563.Prioritization of efforts and assistance for energy infrastructure projects in Europe and Eurasia.
9564.Progress reports.

### SUBCHAPTER I—SANCTIONS AND OTHER MEASURES WITH RESPECT TO THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION ###

