
### §4106. Penalties ###

§4106. Penalties

If a vessel to which this chapter applies is operated in violation of this chapter or a regulation prescribed under this chapter, the owner, charterer, managing operator, agent, master, and individual in charge are each liable to the United States Government for a civil penalty of not more than $5,000. The vessel also is liable in rem for the penalty.

(Pub. L. 98–89, Aug. 26, 1983, 97 Stat. 529; Pub. L. 100–540, §3, Oct. 28, 1988, 102 Stat. 2719.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source section (U.S. Code)* |
| 4106 | 46:526*o* |

Section 4106 provides a civil penalty of $100 for a violation of this chapter or a regulation under this chapter. The vessel also is liable in rem.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**1988**—Pub. L. 100–540 substituted "not more than $5,000" for "$100".

### **CHAPTER 43—RECREATIONAL VESSELS** ###

Sec.
4301.Application.
4302.Regulations.
4303.Inspection and testing.
4304.Importation of nonconforming vessels and equipment.
4305.Exemptions and equivalents.
4306.Federal preemption.
4307.Prohibited acts.
4308.Termination of unsafe operation.
4309.Investigation and reporting.
4310.Repair and replacement of defects.
4311.Penalties and injunctions.
4312.Engine cut-off switches.

#### Historical and Revision Notes ####

Chapter 43 contains the laws applicable to recreational vessels, which originated primarily with the enactment of the Federal Boat Safety Act of 1971 (Public Law 92–75, 85 Stat. 213). That Act embraced a number of activities, but the portion restated in this chapter deals with the establishment of national construction and performance standards for recreational vessels and their associated equipment, the necessary flexible regulatory authority for inspection and testing, Federal preemption, certain necessary prohibited acts, enforcement authority, investigation and reporting requirements, procedures for repair and defect notification, and attendant penalties and injunctive relief. These laws are a direct response to the dramatic increase in the number of recreational boats and the Congressional recognition of the maritime safety problems that recreational boating has imposed upon our more than 25 million miles of waterways.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2021**—Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXIII [LXXXIII], §8318(b), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4700, substituted "Exemptions and equivalents" for "Exemptions" in item 4305.

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–282, title V, §503(b), Dec. 4, 2018, 132 Stat. 4271, added item 4312.

