
### §4728. Notification of post-employment restrictions for Senators and employees ###

§4728. Notification of post-employment restrictions for Senators and employees

#### (a) In general ####

After a Senator or an elected officer of the Senate leaves office or after the termination of employment with the Senate of an employee of the Senate, the Secretary of the Senate shall notify the Member, officer, or employee of the beginning and ending date of the prohibitions that apply to the Member, officer, or employee under rule XXXVII of the Standing Rules of the Senate.

#### (b) Effective date ####

This section shall take effect 60 days after September 14, 2007.

(Pub. L. 110–81, title V, §535, Sept. 14, 2007, 121 Stat. 766.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

Section was formerly classified to section 104f of this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

### **CHAPTER 49—CONGRESSIONAL PAGES** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL ####

Sec.
4901.Congressional pages.
4902.John W. McCormack Residential Page School.
4903.Education of other minors who are Senate employees.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES ####

4911.House of Representatives Page Board; establishment and purpose.
4912.Membership of Page Board.
4913.Regulations of Page Board.
4914.Academic year and summer term for page program.
4915.Service of page during academic year and summer term; filling of vacancies; eligibility.
4916.Definitions.
4917.Page residence hall and page meal plan.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—SENATE ####

4931.Daniel Webster Senate Page Residence Revolving Fund.

### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL ###

