
### §8811. Rule of construction ###

§8811. Rule of construction

Nothing in this subtitle or the amendments made by this subtitle shall be construed to limit sanctions imposed with respect to Iran under any other provision of law or to limit the authority of the President to impose additional sanctions with respect to Iran.

(Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title XII, §1255, Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 2018.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

This subtitle, referred to in text, is subtitle D (§§1241–1255) of title XII of div. A of Pub. L. 112–239, Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 2004, known as the Iran Freedom and Counter-Proliferation Act of 2012, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of subtitle D to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 8801 of this title and Tables.

### **CHAPTER 96—SOVEREIGNTY, INTEGRITY, DEMOCRACY, AND ECONOMIC STABILITY OF UKRAINE** ###

Sec.
8901.Definitions.
8902.United States policy toward Ukraine.
8903.Provision of costs of loan guarantees for Ukraine.
8904.Recovery of assets linked to governmental corruption in Ukraine.
8905.Democracy, civil society, governance, and technical assistance for Ukraine and other states in Central and Eastern Europe.
8906.Enhanced security cooperation with Ukraine and other countries in Central and Eastern Europe.
8907.Sanctions on persons responsible for violence or undermining the peace, security, stability, sovereignty, or territorial integrity of Ukraine.
8908.Sanctions on persons in the Russian Federation complicit in or responsible for significant corruption.
8909.Mandatory imposition of sanctions with respect to certain transactions with persons that evade sanctions imposed with respect to the Russian Federation.
8910.Mandatory imposition of sanctions with respect to transactions with persons responsible for human rights abuses.

