
### §3007. Seniors farmers' market nutrition program ###

§3007. Seniors farmers' market nutrition program

#### (a) Funding ####

Of the funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation, the Secretary of Agriculture shall use to carry out and expand the seniors farmers' market nutrition program $20,600,000 for each of fiscal years 2008 through 2023.

#### (b) Program purposes ####

The purposes of the seniors farmers' market nutrition program are—

(1) to provide resources in the form of fresh, nutritious, unprepared, locally grown fruits, vegetables, honey, and herbs from farmers' markets, roadside stands, and community supported agriculture programs to low-income seniors;

(2) to increase the domestic consumption of agricultural commodities by expanding or aiding in the expansion of domestic farmers' markets, roadside stands, and community supported agriculture programs; and

(3) to develop or aid in the development of new and additional farmers' markets, roadside stands, and community supported agriculture programs.

#### (c) Exclusion of benefits in determining eligibility for other programs ####

The value of any benefit provided to any eligible seniors farmers' market nutrition program recipient under this section shall not be considered to be income or resources for any purposes under any Federal, State, or local law.

#### (d) Prohibition on collection of sales tax ####

Each State shall ensure that no State or local tax is collected within the State on a purchase of food with a benefit distributed under the seniors farmers' market nutrition program.

#### (e) Regulations ####

The Secretary may promulgate such regulations as the Secretary considers to be necessary to carry out the seniors farmers' market nutrition program.

#### (f) Federal law not applicable ####

Section 1693o–2 of title 15 shall not apply to electronic benefit transfer systems established under this section.

(Pub. L. 107–171, title IV, §4402, May 13, 2002, 116 Stat. 334; Pub. L. 110–234, title IV, §§4231, 4406(c)(1), May 22, 2008, 122 Stat. 1124, 1142; Pub. L. 110–246, §4(a), title IV, §§4231, 4406(c)(1), June 18, 2008, 122 Stat. 1664, 1886, 1903; Pub. L. 111–203, title X, §1075(c), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 2074; Pub. L. 113–79, title IV, §4203(a), Feb. 7, 2014, 128 Stat. 822; Pub. L. 115–334, title IV, §4201, Dec. 20, 2018, 132 Stat. 4655.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

Pub. L. 110–234 and Pub. L. 110–246 made identical amendments to this section. The amendments by Pub. L. 110–234 were repealed by section 4(a) of Pub. L. 110–246.

Section was enacted as part of the Food Stamp Reauthorization Act of 2002 and also as part of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002, and not as part of the Farmer-to-Consumer Direct Marketing Act of 1976 which comprises this chapter.

#### Amendments ####

**2018**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 115–334 substituted "2023" for "2018".

**2014**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 113–79 substituted "2018" for "2012".

**2010**—Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 111–203 added subsec. (f).

**2008**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 110–246, §4406(c)(1), added subsec. (a) and struck out former subsec. (a). Prior to amendment, text read as follows: "The Secretary of Agriculture shall use $5,000,000 for fiscal year 2002, and $15,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2003 through 2007, of the funds available to the Commodity Credit Corporation to carry out and expand a seniors farmers' market nutrition program."

Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 110–246, §4231(1), inserted "honey," after "vegetables,".

Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 110–246, §4231(2), added subsec. (c) and struck out former subsec. (c). Prior to amendment, text read as follows: "The Secretary may issue such regulations as the Secretary considers necessary to carry out the seniors farmers' market nutrition program."

Subsecs. (d), (e). Pub. L. 110–246, §4231(3), added subsecs. (d) and (e).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date of 2014 Amendment ####

Pub. L. 113–79, title IV, §4203(b), Feb. 7, 2014, 128 Stat. 822, provided that: "The amendment made by subsection (a) [amending this section] takes effect on October 1, 2013."

#### Effective Date of 2010 Amendment ####

Amendment by Pub. L. 111–203 effective 1 day after July 21, 2010, except as otherwise provided, see section 4 of Pub. L. 111–203, set out as an Effective Date note under section 5301 of Title 12, Banks and Banking.

#### Effective Date of 2008 Amendment ####

Amendment of this section and repeal of Pub. L. 110–234 by Pub. L. 110–246 effective May 22, 2008, the date of enactment of Pub. L. 110–234, except as otherwise provided, see section 4 of Pub. L. 110–246, set out as an Effective Date note under section 8701 of this title.

Amendment by sections 4231 and 4406(c)(1) of Pub. L. 110–246 effective Oct. 1, 2008, see section 4407 of Pub. L. 110–246, set out as a note under section 1161 of Title 2, The Congress.

#### Effective Date ####

Section effective Oct. 1, 2002, except as otherwise provided, see section 4405 of Pub. L. 107–171, set out as a note under section 1161 of Title 2, The Congress.

### **CHAPTER 64—AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH, EXTENSION, AND TEACHING** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—FINDINGS, PURPOSES, AND DEFINITIONS ####

Sec.
3101.Purposes of agricultural research, extension, and education.
3102.Additional purposes of agricultural research and extension.
3103.Definitions.
3104.Agriculture research; declaration of policy; duties of Secretary of Agriculture; use of existing facilities.
3105.Agricultural research; authorization of additional appropriations; administrative expenses; availability of special research fund.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—COORDINATION AND PLANNING OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH, EXTENSION, AND TEACHING ####

3121.Responsibilities of Secretary and Department of Agriculture.
3122.Repealed.
3123.National Agricultural Research, Extension, Education, and Economics Advisory Board.
3123a.Specialty crop committee.
3123b.Repealed.
3124.Existing research programs.
3124a.Federal-State partnership and coordination.
3125.Annual report of Secretary of Agriculture to President and Congress.
3125a.National Agricultural Library.
3125a–1.Agricultural and food law research, legal tools, and information.
3125b.National Rural Information Center Clearinghouse.
3125c.Repealed.
3126.Libraries and information network.
3127.Support for Advisory Board.
3128.General provisions.
3129.Accountability.
3129a.Exemption from chapter 10 of title 5 for competitive research, extension, and education programs.
3130.Repealed.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EDUCATION GRANTS AND FELLOWSHIPS ####

3151.Grants to enhance research capacity in schools of veterinary medicine.
3151a.Veterinary medicine loan repayment.
3151b.Veterinary services grant program.
3152.Grants and fellowships for food and agricultural sciences education.
3153.National Agricultural Science Award.
3154.Repealed.
3155.Agricultural and food policy research centers.
3156.Education grants to Alaska Native serving institutions and Native Hawaiian serving institutions.
3157.Competitive, special, and facilities research grants.
3158.Next generation agriculture technology challenge.
3159.Land-grant designation.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—NATIONAL FOOD AND HUMAN NUTRITION RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROGRAM ####

3171.Congressional findings and declaration of policy.
3172.Duties of Secretary of Agriculture.
3173.Research by Department of Agriculture.
3174, 3174a. Repealed.
3175.Nutrition education program.
3175a.Nutrition and consumer education; Congressional findings.
3175b.Expansion of effective food, nutrition, and consumer education services.
3175c.Program of food, nutrition, and consumer education by State cooperative extension services.
3175d.Administration of program of food, nutrition, and consumer education by State cooperative extension services.
3175e.Authorization of appropriations.
3176, 3177. Repealed.
3178.Nutritional status monitoring.
3178a.Nutrition monitoring.
3179.Research on strategies to promote the selection and consumption of healthy foods.
#### SUBCHAPTER V—ANIMAL HEALTH AND DISEASE RESEARCH ####

3191.Purposes and findings relating to animal health and disease research.
3192.Definitions.
3193.Authorization to Secretary of Agriculture.
3194.Repealed.
3195.Continuing animal health and disease, food security, and stewardship research, education, and extension programs.
3196.Research on national and regional animal health or disease problems.
3197.Availability of appropriated funds.
3198.Withholding of appropriated funds.
3199.Requirements for use of funds.
3200.Matching funds.
3201.Funds appropriated or otherwise made available pursuant to other provisions of law.
3202.Research and education grants for the study of antibiotic-resistant bacteria.
#### SUBCHAPTER VI—1890 LAND-GRANT COLLEGE FUNDING ####

3221.Extension at 1890 land-grant colleges, including Tuskegee University.
3222.Agricultural research at 1890 land-grant colleges, including Tuskegee University.
3222a.Scholarships for students at 1890 Institutions.
3222b.Grants to upgrade agricultural and food sciences facilities at 1890 land-grant colleges, including Tuskegee University.
3222b–1.Grants to upgrade agriculture and food sciences facilities at the District of Columbia land-grant university.
3222b–2.Grants to upgrade agriculture and food sciences facilities and equipment and support tropical and subtropical agricultural research at insular area land-grant colleges and universities.
3222c.Repealed.
3222d.Matching funds requirement for research and extension activities at eligible institutions.
3222e.New beginning for tribal students.
3223.Grants for acquisition and improvement of research facilities and equipment.
3224.Repealed.
#### SUBCHAPTER VII—PROGRAMS FOR HISPANIC, ALASKA NATIVE, AND NATIVE HAWAIIAN SERVING INSTITUTIONS ####

3241.Education grants programs for Hispanic-serving institutions.
3242.Transferred.
3243.Hispanic-serving agricultural colleges and universities.
#### SUBCHAPTER VIII—INTERNATIONAL RESEARCH, EXTENSION, AND TEACHING ####

3291.International agricultural research, extension, and teaching.
3292.Partnerships to build capacity in international agricultural research, extension, and teaching.
3292a.United States-Mexico joint agricultural research.
3292b.Competitive grants for international agricultural science and education programs.
3293.Agricultural fellowship program for middle income countries, emerging democracies, and emerging markets.
3294.Center For North American Studies.
3295.International Agricultural Education Fellowship Program.
#### SUBCHAPTER IX—STUDIES ####

3301 to 3304. Repealed.
#### SUBCHAPTER X—FUNDING AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS ####

3310.Limitation on indirect costs for agricultural research, education, and extension programs.
3310a.Research equipment grants.
3311.Authorization of appropriations.
3312.Authorization of appropriations for extension education.
3313.Payment of funds.
3314.Repealed.
3315.Auditing, reporting, bookkeeping, and administrative requirements.
3315a.Availability of competitive grant funds.
3316.Rules and regulations.
3317.Program evaluation studies.
3318.Contract, grant, and cooperative agreement authorities.
3318a.Cooperative research projects; agreements with and receipt of funds from State and other agencies.
3319.Restriction on treatment of indirect costs and tuition remission.
3319a.Cost-reimbursable agreements.
3319b.Joint requests for proposals.
3319c.Repealed.
3319d.Supplemental and alternative crops.
3319e.New Era Rural Technology Program.
3319f.Repealed.
3319g.Fees.
3319h.Funds for research facilities.
3319i.Capacity building grants for NLGCA Institutions.
3319j.Borlaug International Agricultural Science and Technology Fellowship Program.
3319k.Agriculture Advanced Research and Development Authority pilot.
#### SUBCHAPTER XI—AQUACULTURE ####

3321.Statement of purpose.
3322.Assistance programs.
3323.Repealed.
3324.Authorization of appropriations.
#### SUBCHAPTER XII—RANGELAND RESEARCH ####

3331.Congressional statement of purpose.
3332.Program; development, purposes, scope, etc.
3333.Rangeland research grants.
3334, 3335. Repealed.
3336.Authorization of appropriations; allocation of funds.
#### SUBCHAPTER XIII—BIOSECURITY ####

3351.Special authorization for biosecurity planning and response.
3352.Agriculture research facility expansion and security upgrades.
3353.Agricultural biosecurity.
3354.Agricultural bioterrorism research and development.
#### SUBCHAPTER XIV—INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION IN INSULAR AREAS ####

3361.Definition.
3362.Distance education grants for insular areas.
3363.Resident instruction grants for insular areas.
#### SUBCHAPTER XV—GENERAL PROVISIONS ####

3371.Repealed.

### SUBCHAPTER I—FINDINGS, PURPOSES, AND DEFINITIONS ###

