
### §3385. Benjamin Tallmadge Institute as primary Central Intelligence Agency entity for education and training in counterintelligence ###

§3385. Benjamin Tallmadge Institute as primary Central Intelligence Agency entity for education and training in counterintelligence

#### (a) In general ####

The Director of the Central Intelligence Agency shall maintain the Benjamin Tallmadge Institute as the primary entity within the Central Intelligence Agency for education and training related to all aspects of counterintelligence.

#### (b) Responsibilities of Director ####

The Director of the Central Intelligence Agency shall—

(1) ensure the Institute is fully and properly organized and has the resources necessary to provide counterintelligence education and training for all career fields within the Agency, including specialized certifications for Agency counterintelligence personnel;

(2) develop appropriate certification courses that are designed to educate, train, and certify Agency personnel in—

(A) counterintelligence threats, insider threats, and other counterintelligence processes and issues;

(B) the conduct and support of counterintelligence inquiries and investigations;

(C) relevant skills necessary for coordination with Federal law enforcement; and

(D) any other skills as the Director determines necessary;

(3) identify and designate specific positions for which an individual shall be required to have a certification described in paragraph (2) prior to filling such a position; and

(4) develop necessary infrastructure and capacity to support the availability of courses under subsection (c) to increase participation by personnel from other components of the intelligence community in the courses offered by the Institute.

#### (c) Training and familiarization courses ####

#### (1) In general ####

The head of the Institute shall—

(A) develop training and familiarization courses at different classification levels, including courses at an unclassified level; and

(B) offer instruction in the courses developed under subparagraph (A) or make training curricula available to other intelligence community components, as appropriate, to support outreach efforts.

#### (2) Availability of courses ####

The training and familiarization courses developed under paragraph (1) shall be made available to any of the following that have a need and appropriate clearance, as determined by the Director of the National Counterintelligence and Security Center in consultation with the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, for a general education on counterintelligence threats, briefings on specific topics, or other training related to counterintelligence:

(A) Federal departments and agencies that are not elements of the intelligence community.

(B) State, local, and Tribal governments.

(C) Private sector entities.

(D) Such other personnel and entities as appropriate.

#### (d) Baseline certification course ####

#### (1) In general ####

The Institute shall develop, in coordination with the National Counterintelligence and Security Center and the Defense Intelligence Agency, and implement a baseline certification course for all counterintelligence career professionals that aligns the minimum certification requirements of the course and the Defense Counterintelligence Agent Course of the Joint Counterintelligence Training Activity.

#### (2) Availability of course ####

The baseline certification course developed under paragraph (1) shall be made available, on a space-available basis, to all intelligence community professionals and appropriate personnel with appropriate security clearance from any other agency, committee, commission, office, or other establishment in the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Federal Government.

(Pub. L. 118–31, div. G, title III, §7334, Dec. 22, 2023, 137 Stat. 1046.)

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Definitions ####

For definition of "intelligence community" as used in this section, see section 7002 of Pub. L. 118–31, set out as a note under section 3003 of this title.

### **CHAPTER 46—CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY** ###

Sec.
3501.Definitions.
3502.Seal of office.
3503.Procurement authorities.
3504.Repealed.
3505.Personnel allowances and benefits.
3506.General authorities.
3506a.Transformation of Central Intelligence Agency.
3507.Protection of nature of Agency's functions.
3508.Admission of essential aliens; limitation on number.
3509.Repealed.
3510.Appropriations.
3510a.Availability of appropriations for construction projects.
3510b.Acquisition of critical skills.
3511.Benefits available in event of the death of personnel.
3512.Gifts, devises, and bequests.
3513.Misuse of Agency name, initials, or seal.
3514.Retirement equity for spouses of certain employees.
3515.Security personnel at Agency installations.
3516.Health benefits for certain former spouses of Central Intelligence Agency employees.
3517.Inspector General for Agency.
3518.Special annuity computation rules for certain employees' service abroad.
3518a.Portability of overseas service retirement benefit.
3519.Special rules for disability retirement and death-in-service benefits with respect to certain employees.
3519a.Separation pay program for voluntary separation from service.
3519b.Special rules for certain individuals injured by reason of war, insurgency, hostile act, terrorist activities, or incidents designated by the Director.
3520.General Counsel of Central Intelligence Agency.
3521.Central services program.
3522.Detail of employees.
3523.Intelligence operations and cover enhancement authority.
3524.Support for the Associate Director of the Central Intelligence Agency for Military Affairs.
3525.Office of the Ombudsman for Analytic Objectivity.
3526.Improvement of education in science, technology, engineering, arts, and mathematics.
3527.Chaplain Corps and Chief of Chaplains.
3528.Compensation and professional standards for certain medical officers.
3529.Medical advisory board.
3530.Office of wellness and workforce support.
3531.Sexual assault and sexual harassment within the Agency.
3532.Reporting and investigation of allegations of sexual assault and sexual harassment.
3533.Special Victim Investigator.

