
### §1074. Flight to avoid prosecution for damaging or destroying any building or other real or personal property ###

§1074. Flight to avoid prosecution for damaging or destroying any building or other real or personal property

(a) Whoever moves or travels in interstate or foreign commerce with intent either (1) to avoid prosecution, or custody, or confinement after conviction, under the laws of the place from which he flees, for willfully attempting to or damaging or destroying by fire or explosive any building, structure, facility, vehicle, dwelling house, synagogue, church, religious center or educational institution, public or private, or (2) to avoid giving testimony in any criminal proceeding relating to any such offense shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than five years, or both.

(b) Violations of this section may be prosecuted in the Federal judicial district in which the original crime was alleged to have been committed or in which the person was held in custody or confinement: *Provided, however*, That this section shall not be construed as indicating an intent on the part of Congress to prevent any State, Territory, Commonwealth, or possession of the United States of any jurisdiction over any offense over which they would have jurisdiction in the absence of such section.

(Added Pub. L. 86–449, title II, §201, May 6, 1960, 74 Stat. 86; amended Pub. L. 103–322, title XXXIII, §330016(1)(K), Sept. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 2147.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**1994**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 103–322 substituted "fined under this title" for "fined not more than $5,000".

### **CHAPTER 50—GAMBLING** ###

Sec.
1081.Definitions.
1082.Gambling ships.
1083.Transportation between shore and ship; penalties.
1084.Transmission of wagering information; penalties.

#### Historical and Revision Notes ####

This section [section 23 of act May 24, 1949] inserts a new chapter 50 (secs. 1081–1083) in title 18, U.S.C., incorporating, with slight changes in phraseology, most of the provisions of act of April 27, 1948 (ch. 235, 62 Stat. 200), which was not incorporated in title 18 when the revision was enacted. Subsection (e) of section 1 of such act, defining "United States", when used in a geographical sense, was omitted as covered by section 5 of such title 18. Section 4 of such act, which provided that nothing in such act "shall be held to take away or impair the jurisdiction of the courts of the several States under the laws thereof, or to preclude action, otherwise valid, by any State or Territory with respect to the navigable waters within the boundaries of such State or Territory", was omitted as surplusage and unnecessary.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**1961**—Pub. L. 87–216, §3, Sept. 13, 1961, 75 Stat. 491, added item 1084.

**1949**—Act May 24, 1949, ch. 139, §23, 63 Stat. 92, added chapter 50 and items 1081 to 1083.

