
### §5822. Making ###

§5822. Making

No person shall make a firearm unless he has (a) filed with the Secretary a written application, in duplicate, to make and register the firearm on the form prescribed by the Secretary; (b) paid any tax payable on the making and such payment is evidenced by the proper stamp affixed to the original application form; (c) identified the firearm to be made in the application form in such manner as the Secretary may by regulations prescribe; (d) identified himself in the application form in such manner as the Secretary may by regulations prescribe, except that, if such person is an individual, the identification must include his fingerprints and his photograph; and (e) obtained the approval of the Secretary to make and register the firearm and the application form shows such approval. Applications shall be denied if the making or possession of the firearm would place the person making the firearm in violation of law.

(Added Pub. L. 90–618, title II, §201, Oct. 22, 1968, 82 Stat. 1228; amended Pub. L. 94–455, title XIX, §1906(b)(13)(A), Oct. 4, 1976, 90 Stat. 1834.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Prior Provisions ####

A prior section 5831, act Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736, 68A Stat. 724, made a cross reference to section 4181 of this title relating to an excise tax on pistols, revolvers, and firearms, prior to the general revision of this chapter by Pub. L. 90–618, title II, §201, Oct. 22, 1968, 82 Stat. 1227.

#### Amendments ####

**1976**—Pub. L. 94–455 struck out "or his delegate" after "Secretary".

### **Subchapter B—General Provisions and Exemptions** ###

Part
I.General provisions.
II.Exemptions.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Prior Provisions ####

A prior subchapter B consisted of sections 5841 to 5848, prior to the general revision of this chapter by Pub. L. 90–618, title II, §201, Oct. 22, 1968, 82 Stat. 1227.

### PART I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ###

Sec.
5841.Registration of firearms.
5842.Identification of firearms.
5843.Records and returns.
5844.Importation.
5845.Definitions.
5846.Other laws applicable.
5847.Effect on other laws.
5848.Restrictive use of information.
5849.Citation of chapter.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–141, div. U, title IV, §401(a)(251), Mar. 23, 2018, 132 Stat. 1196, substituted "Effect on other laws" for "Effect on other law" in item 5847.

