
### §7116. Examinations for merchant mariner credentials ###

§7116. Examinations for merchant mariner credentials

(a) Requirement for Sample Exams.—The Secretary shall develop a sample merchant mariner credential examination and outline of merchant mariner examination topics on an annual basis.

(b) Public Availability.—Each sample examination and outline of topics developed under subsection (a) shall be readily available to the public.

(c) Merchant Mariner Credential Defined.—In this section, the term "merchant mariner credential" has the meaning that term has in section 7510.

(Added Pub. L. 114–120, title III, §315(b)(1), Feb. 8, 2016, 130 Stat. 62.)

### **CHAPTER 73—MERCHANT MARINERS' DOCUMENTS** ###

Sec.
7301.General.
7302.Issuing merchant mariners' documents and continuous discharge books.
7303.Possession and description of merchant mariners' documents.
7304.Citizenship notation on merchant mariners' documents.
7305.Oaths for holders of merchant mariners' documents.
7306.General requirements and classifications for able seamen.
7307.Able seamen—unlimited.
7308.Able seamen—limited.
7309.Able seamen—special.
7310.Able seamen—offshore supply vessels.
7311.Able seamen—sail.
7311a.Able seamen—fishing industry.
7312.Scale of employment.
7313.General requirements for members of engine departments.
7314.Service requirements for qualified members of engine departments.
7315.Training.
7316.Lifeboatmen.
7317.Tankermen.
7318.Radiotelegraph operators on Great Lakes.
7319.Records of merchant mariners' documents.

#### Historical and Revision Notes ####

Chapter 73 establishes the general requirements for the issuance of a merchant mariners' document to those individuals who are required to have a document prior to engagement or employment on certain vessels of the United States.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**1984**—Pub. L. 98–364, title IV, §402(9)(A), July 17, 1984, 98 Stat. 448, added item 7311a.

