
### §2503. State entitlement to escheat or custody ###

§2503. State entitlement to escheat or custody

Where any sum is payable on a money order, traveler's check, or other similar written instrument (other than a third party bank check) on which a banking or financial organization or a business association is directly liable—

(1) if the books and records of such banking or financial organization or business association show the State in which such money order, traveler's check, or similar written instrument was purchased, that State shall be entitled exclusively to escheat or take custody of the sum payable on such instrument, to the extent of that State's power under its own laws to escheat or take custody of such sum;

(2) if the books and records of such banking or financial organization or business association do not show the State in which such money order, traveler's check, or similar written instrument was purchased, the State in which the banking or financial organization or business association has its principal place of business shall be entitled to escheat or take custody of the sum payable on such money order, traveler's check, or similar written instrument, to the extent of that State's power under its own laws to escheat or take custody of such sum, until another State shall demonstrate by written evidence that it is the State of purchase; or

(3) if the books and records of such banking or financial organizations or business association show the State in which such money order, traveler's check, or similar written instrument was purchased and the laws of the State of purchase do not provide for the escheat or custodial taking of the sum payable on such instrument, the State in which the banking or financial organization or business association has its principal place of business shall be entitled to escheat or take custody of the sum payable on such money order, traveler's check, or similar written instrument, to the extent of that State's power under its own laws to escheat or take custody of such sum, subject to the right of the State of purchase to recover such sum from the State of principal place of business if and when the law of the State of purchase makes provision for escheat or custodial taking of such sum.

(Pub. L. 93–495, title VI, §603, Oct. 28, 1974, 88 Stat. 1525.)

### **CHAPTER 27—REAL ESTATE SETTLEMENT PROCEDURES** ###

Sec.
2601.Congressional findings and purpose.
2602.Definitions.
2603.Uniform settlement statement.
2604.Home buying information booklets.
2605.Servicing of mortgage loans and administration of escrow accounts.
2606.Exempted transactions.
2607.Prohibition against kickbacks and unearned fees.
2608.Title companies; liability of seller.
2609.Limitation on requirement of advance deposits in escrow accounts.
2610.Prohibition of fees for preparation of truth-in-lending, uniform settlement, and escrow account statements.
2611 to 2613. Repealed.
2614.Jurisdiction of courts; limitations.
2615.Contracts and liens; validity.
2616.State laws unaffected; inconsistent Federal and State provisions.
2617.Authority of Bureau.

