
### §590z–11. Delegation of powers and duties by Secretary of the Interior ###

§590z–11. Delegation of powers and duties by Secretary of the Interior

For the purpose of facilitating and simplifying the administration of the Federal reclamation laws (Act of June 17, 1902, 32 Stat. 388, and Acts amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto) and the Act of August 11, 1939 (53 Stat. 1418), as amended [16 U.S.C. 590y et seq.], the Secretary of the Interior is authorized to delegate, from time to time and to the extent and under such regulations as he deems proper, his powers and duties under said laws to the Commissioner of Reclamation, an Assistant Commissioner, or the officer in charge of any office, division, district, or project of the Bureau of Reclamation.

(Dec. 19, 1941, ch. 595, 55 Stat. 842.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

Act of June 17, 1902, referred to in text, is act June 17, 1902, ch. 1093, 32 Stat. 388, popularly known as the Reclamation Act, which is classified generally to chapter 12 (§371 et seq.) of Title 43, Public Lands. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 371 of Title 43 and Tables.

Act of August 11, 1939, referred to in text, is act Aug. 11, 1939, ch. 717, 53 Stat. 1418, which is classified generally to this subchapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification ####

This section was not enacted as part of act Aug. 11, 1939, ch. 717, 53 Stat. 1418, which comprises this subchapter.

#### **Executive Documents** ####

#### Transfer of Functions ####

For transfer of functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of Department of the Interior, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Interior, with power to delegate, see Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1950, §§1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, 64 Stat. 1262, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

### **CHAPTER 4—PROTECTION OF TIMBER, AND DEPREDATIONS** ###

Sec.
591, 592.Repealed.
593.Protection of timber in Florida.
594.Protection of timber owned by United States from fire, disease, or insect ravages.
594–1 to 600. Repealed.
601.Disposition of moneys collected for depredations.
602.Seizure of timber cut.
603.Omitted.
604.Cutting timber on certain mineral lands; permits to corporations; railroad corporations.
605.Unlawful cutting on mineral lands; notice to Secretary.
606.Offense for unlawful cutting on mineral lands; punishment.
607.Cutting and removal of timber on certain public lands for certain purposes.
607a.Cutting and use of timber in Alaska by settlers, residents, miners, etc.
608.Permits to cut and remove timber; citizens of Malheur County, Oregon.
609.Permits to cut and remove timber; citizens of Modoc County, California.
610.Permits to cut and remove timber; citizens of Washington County and Kane County, Utah.
611.Permits to cut and remove timber; citizens of Idaho and Wyoming.
611a.Permits to cut and remove timber; citizens of Bear Lake County, Idaho.
612.Permits to cut and remove timber to certain corporations.
613.Limitations of use of timber taken not to apply to certain territory.
614, 615.Repealed.
615a.Sale of timber in Alaska; appraisal; local consumption; accounting; deposit in Treasury.
615b.Exportation of timber pulp wood and wood pulp from Alaska.
616.Exportation of timber cut on national forest or public land in Alaska.
617.Exportation of unprocessed timber from Federal lands.
618.Timber contract payment modification.
619.Emergency stumpage rate redeterminations in Alaska.
620.Findings and purposes.
620a.Restrictions on exports of unprocessed timber originating from Federal lands.
620b.Limitations on substitution of unprocessed Federal timber for unprocessed timber exported from private lands.
620c.Restriction on exports of unprocessed timber from State and other public lands.
620d.Monitoring and enforcement.
620e.Definitions.
620f.Regulations and review.
620g.Authorization of appropriations.
620h.Savings provision.
620i.Eastern hardwoods study.
620j.Authority of Export Administration Act of 1979.

