
### §2106. Definitions ###

§2106. Definitions

For purposes of this chapter:

(1) The term "original political item" means any political button, poster, literature, sticker, or any advertisement produced for use in any political cause.

(2) The term "imitation political item" means an item which purports to be, but in fact is not, an original political item, or which is a reproduction, copy, or counterfeit of an original political item.

(3) The term "original numismatic item" means anything which has been a part of a coinage or issue which has been used in exchange or has been used to commemorate a person or event. Such term includes coins, tokens, paper money, and commemorative medals.

(4) The term "imitation numismatic item" means an item which purports to be, but in fact is not, an original numismatic item or which is a reproduction, copy, or counterfeit of an original numismatic item.

(5) The term "commerce" has the same meaning as such term has under the Federal Trade Commission Act [15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.].

(6) The term "Commission" means the Federal Trade Commission.

(7) The term "United States" means the States, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.

(8) The term "collectibles certification service" means a person recognized by collectors for providing independent certification that collectible items are genuine.

(9) The term "Trademark Act of 1946" means the Act entitled "An Act to provide for the registration and protection of trademarks used in commerce, to carry out the provisions of certain international conventions, and for other purposes", approved July 5, 1946 (15 U.S.C. 1051 et seq.).

(Pub. L. 93–167, §7, Nov. 29, 1973, 87 Stat. 687; Pub. L. 113–288, §2(3), Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3281.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

The Federal Trade Commission Act, referred to in par. (5), is act Sept. 26, 1914, ch. 311, 38 Stat. 717, which is classified generally to subchapter I (§41 et seq.) of chapter 2 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 58 of this title and Tables.

The Trademark Act of 1946, referred to in par. (9), is act July 5, 1946, ch. 540, 60 Stat. 427, also popularly known as the Lanham Act, which is classified generally to chapter 22 (§1051 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1051 of this title and Tables.

#### Amendments ####

**2014**—Pars. (8), (9). Pub. L. 113–288 added pars. (8) and (9).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date ####

Section applicable only to imitation political items and imitation numismatic items manufactured after Nov. 29, 1973, see section 8 of Pub. L. 93–167, set out as a note under section 2101 of this title.

### **CHAPTER 49—FIRE PREVENTION AND CONTROL** ###

Sec.
2201.Congressional findings.
2202.Declaration of purpose.
2203.Definitions.
2204.United States Fire Administration.
2205.Public education.
2206.National Academy for Fire Prevention and Control.
2207.Fire technology.
2208.National Fire Data Center.
2209.Master plans.
2210.Reimbursement for costs of firefighting on Federal property.
2211.Review of fire prevention codes.
2212.Fire safety effectiveness statements.
2213.Annual conference.
2214.Public safety awards.
2215.Reports to Congress and President.
2216.Authorization of appropriations.
2217.Public access to information.
2218.Administrative provisions.
2219.Assistance to Consumer Product Safety Commission.
2220.Arson prevention, detection, and control.
2221.Arson prevention grants.
2222, 2223. Repealed.
2223a.Review.
2223b.Working group.
2223c.Report and recommendations.
2223d.Annual revision of recommendations.
2223e."Emergency response personnel" defined.
2224.Listings of places of public accommodation.
2225.Fire prevention and control guidelines for places of public accommodation.
2225a.Prohibiting Federal funding of conferences held at non-certified places of public accommodation.
2226.Dissemination of fire prevention and control information.
2227.Fire safety systems in federally assisted buildings.
2228.CPR training.
2229.Firefighter assistance.
2229a.Staffing for adequate fire and emergency response.
2230.Surplus and excess Federal equipment.
2231.Cooperative agreements with Federal facilities.
2232.Burn research.
2233.Removal of civil liability barriers that discourage the donation of fire equipment to volunteer fire companies.
2234.Encouraging adoption of standards for firefighter health and safety.
2235.Investigation authorities.

