
### §9138. Regular Air Force and Space Force: reenlistment after service as an officer ###

§9138. Regular Air Force and Space Force: reenlistment after service as an officer

(a) Any former enlisted member of the Regular Air Force or the Space Force who has served on active duty as an officer of the Air Force or the Space Force, or who was discharged as an enlisted member to accept an appointment as an officer of the Air Force or the Space Force, is entitled to be reenlisted in the Regular Air Force or the Space Force in the enlisted grade that he held before his service as an officer, without loss of seniority or credit for service, regardless of the existence of a vacancy in his grade or of a physical disability incurred or having its inception in line of duty, if (1) his service as an officer is terminated by an honorable discharge or he is relieved from active duty for a purpose other than to await appellate review of a sentence that includes dismissal or dishonorable discharge, and (2) he applies for reenlistment within six months (or such other period as the Secretary of the Air Force prescribes for exceptional circumstances) after termination of that service.

(b) A person is not entitled to be reenlisted under this section if—

(1) the person was discharged or released from active duty as an officer on the basis of a determination of—

(A) misconduct;

(B) moral or professional dereliction;

(C) duty performance below prescribed standards for the grade held; or

(D) retention being inconsistent with the interests of national security; or

(2) the person's former enlisted status and grade was based solely on the participation by that person in a precommissioning program that resulted in the commission held by that person during the active duty from which the person was released or discharged.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 505, §8258; Pub. L. 85–603, §1(3), Aug. 8, 1958, 72 Stat. 526; Pub. L. 102–484, div. A, title V, §520(b), Oct. 23, 1992, 106 Stat. 2409; Pub. L. 110–181, div. A, title V, §506(b), Jan. 28, 2008, 122 Stat. 96; renumbered §9138, Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §806(b)(2), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1832; renumbered §9132 and amended Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title IX, §923(c)(2)(A), (B), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 3810; renumbered §9138, Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title X, §1081(a)(34), Dec. 27, 2021, 135 Stat. 1921; Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVII, §1721(a)(2), Dec. 22, 2023, 137 Stat. 665.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 8258 | 10:631a (less last proviso). | July 14, 1939, ch. 267, §1 (less last proviso); restated May 29, 1954, ch. 249, §19(b) (less last proviso), 68 Stat. 166. |

The words "former" and "as an enlisted member" are inserted for clarity. The words "credit for service" are substituted for the words "of service". The words "in his grade" are substituted for the words "in the appropriate enlisted grade". The words "he applies" are substituted for the words "application \* \* \* shall be made". The words "Hereafter" and "while on active duty" are omitted as surplusage.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2023**—Pub. L. 118–31, §1721(a)(2)(B), struck out "Regular" before "Space Force:" in section catchline.

Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 118–31, §1721(a)(2)(A), struck out "Regular" before "Space Force" in two places.

**2021**—Pub. L. 117–81 renumbered section 9132 of this title relating to Regular Air Force and Regular Space Force: reenlistment after service as an officer as this section.

Pub. L. 116–283, §923(c)(2)(B), which directed the amendment of "such section 9132" by substituting "9132" for "9138" as the section designation and "Regular Air Force and Regular Space Force: reenlistment after service as an officer" for "Regular Air Force: reenlistment after service as an officer" as the section catchline, was executed to this section to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 116–283, §923(c)(2)(A), inserted "or the Regular Space Force" after "Regular Air Force" in two places and "or the Space Force" after "officer of the Air Force" in two places.

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232 renumbered section 8258 of this title as this section.

**2008**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 110–181, §506(b)(1), substituted "duty as an officer of the Air Force" for "duty as a reserve officer of the Air Force" and "an appointment" for "a temporary appointment".

Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 110–181, §506(b)(2)(A), substituted "an officer" for "a Reserve officer" in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (b)(2). Pub. L. 110–181, §506(b)(2)(B), substituted "the commission" for "the Reserve commission".

**1992**—Pub. L. 102–484 designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), added subsec. (b), and struck out at end of subsec. (a) "However, if his service as an officer terminated by a general discharge, he may, under regulations to be prescribed by the Secretary of the Air Force, be so reenlisted."

**1958**—Pub. L. 85–603 limited entitlement to be reenlisted in enlisted grade to those officers whose service terminated by an honorable discharge and those relieved from active duty for a purpose other than to await appellate review of a sentence that includes dismissal or dishonorable discharge, and provided that persons whose service terminated by a general discharge, may, under regulations to be prescribed by the Secretary of the Air Force, be so reenlisted.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment ####

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–232 effective Feb. 1, 2019, with provision for the coordination of amendments and special rule for certain redesignations, see section 800 of Pub. L. 115–232, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.

#### Effective Date of 1992 Amendment ####

Amendment by Pub. L. 102–484 applicable to persons discharged or released from active duty as commissioned officers in the Air Force Reserve after Oct. 23, 1992, see section 520(c) of Pub. L. 102–484, set out as a note under section 3258 of this title.

### **CHAPTER 915—APPOINTMENTS IN THE REGULAR AIR FORCE AND IN THE SPACE FORCE** ###

Sec.
9151.Commissioned officer grades.
9160.Warrant officers: original appointment; qualifications.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2023**—Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVII, §1721(a)(5)(A), Dec. 22, 2023, 137 Stat. 665, substituted "APPOINTMENTS IN THE REGULAR AIR FORCE AND IN THE SPACE FORCE" for "APPOINTMENTS IN THE REGULAR AIR FORCE AND THE REGULAR SPACE FORCE" in chapter heading.

**2021**—Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title IX, §923(c)(3)(B), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 3810, substituted "APPOINTMENTS IN THE REGULAR AIR FORCE AND THE REGULAR SPACE FORCE" for "APPOINTMENTS IN THE REGULAR AIR FORCE" in chapter heading.

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §806(d)(3)(A), (e)(1), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1833, redesignated chapter 835 of this title as this chapter and items 8281 and 8310 as 9151 and 9160, respectively.

**1980**—Pub. L. 96–513, title V, §504(10), Dec. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 2916, struck out items 8284 "Commissioned officers: appointment, how made", 8285 "Commissioned officers: original appointment; qualifications", 8286 "Commissioned officers: original appointment; age limitations", 8287 "Commissioned officers: original appointment; service credit", 8288 "Commissioned officers: original appointment; determination of grade", 8289 "Commissioned officers: medical officers; original appointment; professional examination", 8293 "Commissioned officers; chaplains: original appointment; examination", 8294 "Commissioned officers: medical and dental officers: original appointment", 8295 "Commissioned officers: original appointment; determination of place on promotion list", 8296 "Promotion lists: promotion-list officer defined; determination of place upon transfer or promotion", 8297 "Selection boards", 8298 "Commissioned officers: promotion to first lieutenant; effect of failure of promotion", 8299 "Commissioned officers: promotion to captain, major, or lieutenant colonel", 8300 "Commissioned officers: promotion to captain, major, or lieutenant colonel; selection board procedure", 8301 "Commissioned officers: promotion to captain, major, or lieutenant colonel; officers with special qualifications", 8302 "Commissioned officers: medical, dental, and veterinary officers: promotion to captain, major, or lieutenant colonel; professional examination", 8303 "Commissioned officers: effect of failure of promotion to captain, major, or lieutenant colonel", 8305 "Commissioned officers: promotion to colonel", 8306 "Commissioned officers: promotion to brigadier general", 8307 "Commissioned officers: promotion to major general", 8308 "Commissioned officers: effect of removal from recommended list by President or failure of confirmation by Senate", 8309 "Commissioned officers: physical examination for promotion", 8312 "Officers: acceptance of promotion", 8313 "Suspension of laws for promotion or mandatory retirement or separation during war or emergency", and 8314 "Commissioned officers: promotion not be to delayed by another appointment".

**1958**—Pub. L. 85–861, §§1(177)(B), 33(a)(38), Sept. 2, 1958, 72 Stat. 1520, 1566, substituted "officers" for "Officers" in item 8309, and added item 8314.

**1957**—Pub. L. 85–155, title III, §301(15), Aug. 21, 1957, 71 Stat. 388, struck out items 8291 "Commissioned officers; Air Force nurses and women medical specialists: original appointment; additional qualifications, grade" and 8304 "Commissioned officers; Air Force nurses and women medical specialists: promotion to first lieutenant, captain, major, lieutenant colonel, or colonel".

