
### §3177. Use of photovoltaic energy in public buildings ###

§3177. Use of photovoltaic energy in public buildings

(a) Photovoltaic Energy Commercialization Program.—

(1) In general.—The Administrator of General Services may establish a photovoltaic energy commercialization program for the procurement and installation of photovoltaic solar electric systems for electric production in new and existing public buildings.

(2) Purposes.—The purposes of the program shall be to accomplish the following:

(A) To accelerate the growth of a commercially viable photovoltaic industry to make this energy system available to the general public as an option which can reduce the national consumption of fossil fuel.

(B) To reduce the fossil fuel consumption and costs of the Federal Government.

(C) To attain the goal of installing solar energy systems in 20,000 Federal buildings by 2010, as contained in the Federal Government's Million Solar Roof Initiative of 1997.

(D) To stimulate the general use within the Federal Government of life-cycle costing and innovative procurement methods.

(E) To develop program performance data to support policy decisions on future incentive programs with respect to energy.

(3) Acquisition of photovoltaic solar electric systems.—

(A) In general.—The program shall provide for the acquisition of photovoltaic solar electric systems and associated storage capability for use in public buildings.

(B) Acquisition levels.—The acquisition of photovoltaic electric systems shall be at a level substantial enough to allow use of low-cost production techniques with at least 150 megawatts (peak) cumulative acquired during the 5 years of the program.

(4) Administration.—The Administrator shall administer the program and shall—

(A) issue such rules and regulations as may be appropriate to monitor and assess the performance and operation of photovoltaic solar electric systems installed pursuant to this subsection;

(B) develop innovative procurement strategies for the acquisition of such systems; and

(C) transmit to Congress an annual report on the results of the program.

(b) Photovoltaic Systems Evaluation Program.—

(1) In general.—Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this section, the Administrator shall establish a photovoltaic solar energy systems evaluation program to evaluate such photovoltaic solar energy systems as are required in public buildings.

(2) Program requirement.—In evaluating photovoltaic solar energy systems under the program, the Administrator shall ensure that such systems reflect the most advanced technology.

(c) Authorization of Appropriations.—

(1) Photovoltaic energy commercialization program.—There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out subsection (a) $50,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2006 through 2010. Such sums shall remain available until expended.

(2) Photovoltaic systems evaluation program.—There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out subsection (b) $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2006 through 2010. Such sums shall remain available until expended.

(Added Pub. L. 109–58, title II, §204(a), Aug. 8, 2005, 119 Stat. 653.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

The date of enactment of this section, referred to in subsec. (b)(1), is the date of enactment of Pub. L. 109–58, which was approved Aug. 8, 2005.

### **CHAPTER 33—ACQUISITION, CONSTRUCTION, AND ALTERATION** ###

Sec.
3301.Definitions and nonapplication.
3302.Prohibition on construction of buildings except by Administrator of General Services.
3303.Continuing investigation and survey of public buildings.
3304.Acquisition of buildings and sites.
3305.Construction and alteration of buildings.
3306.Accommodating federal agencies.
3307.Congressional approval of proposed projects.
3308.Architectural or engineering services.
3309.Buildings and sites in the District of Columbia.
3310.Special rules for leased buildings.
3311.State administration of criminal and health and safety laws.
3312.Compliance with nationally recognized codes.
3313.Procurement of life-cycle cost effective and energy efficient lighting systems.
3314.Baby changing facilities in restrooms.
3315.Delegation.
3316.Report to Congress.
3317.Certain authority not affected.
3318.[1](#CHAPTER33_1_target)Lactation room in public buildings.
3318.[1](#CHAPTER33_1_target)Availability of Federal building project information.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2022**—Pub. L. 117–202, §3(b), Oct. 17, 2022, 136 Stat. 2226, added item 3313 and struck out former item 3313 "Use of energy efficient lighting fixtures and bulbs".

**2021**—Pub. L. 116–333, §2(b), Jan. 13, 2021, 134 Stat. 5114, which directed adding item 3318, relating to availability of Federal building project information, to the table of chapters for chapter 33, was executed by adding it to the table of sections for chapter 33, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

**2019**—Pub. L. 116–30, §2(b), July 25, 2019, 133 Stat. 1033, which directed adding item 3318, relating to lactation room in public buildings, after item 3316, was executed by adding it after item 3317, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

**2016**—Pub. L. 114–235, §2(b), Oct. 7, 2016, 130 Stat. 965, added items 3314 to 3317 and struck out former items 3314 "Delegation", 3315 "Report to Congress", and 3316 "Certain authority not affected".

**2007**—Pub. L. 110–140, title III, §323(c)(2), Dec. 19, 2007, 121 Stat. 1591, added items 3313 to 3316 and struck out former items 3313 "Delegation", 3314 "Report to Congress", and 3315 "Certain authority not affected".

[1 So in original. Two sections 3318 have been enacted.](#CHAPTER33_1)

