
### §2297h–13. Application of certain laws ###

§2297h–13. Application of certain laws

#### (a) OSHA ####

(1) As of the privatization date, the private corporation shall be subject to and comply with the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (29 U.S.C. 651 et seq.).

(2) The Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration shall, within 90 days after April 26, 1996, enter into a memorandum of agreement to govern the exercise of their authority over occupational safety and health hazards at the gaseous diffusion plants, including inspection, investigation, enforcement, and rulemaking relating to such hazards.

#### (b) Antitrust laws ####

For purposes of the antitrust laws, the performance by the private corporation of a "matched import" contract under the Suspension Agreement shall be considered to have occurred prior to the privatization date, if at the time of privatization, such contract had been agreed to by the parties in all material terms and confirmed by the Secretary of Commerce under the Suspension Agreement.

#### (c) Energy Reorganization Act requirements ####

(1) The private corporation and its contractors and subcontractors shall be subject to the provisions of section 5851 of this title to the same extent as an employer subject to such section.

(2) With respect to the operation of the facilities leased by the private corporation, section 5846 of this title shall apply to the directors and officers of the private corporation.

(Pub. L. 104–134, title III, §3115, Apr. 26, 1996, 110 Stat. 1321–348.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

The Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, referred to in subsec. (a)(1), is Pub. L. 91–596, Dec. 29, 1970, 84 Stat. 1590, which is classified principally to chapter 15 (§651 et seq.) of Title 29, Labor. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 651 of Title 29 and Tables.

#### Codification ####

Section was enacted as part of the USEC Privatization Act and also as part of the Omnibus Consolidated Rescissions and Appropriations Act of 1996, and not as part of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 which comprises this chapter.

### **CHAPTER 24—DISPOSAL OF ATOMIC ENERGY COMMUNITIES** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ####

Sec.
2301.Congressional declaration of policy.
2302.Congressional findings.
2303.Purpose of chapter.
2304.Definitions.
2305.Powers of Atomic Energy Commission.
2306.Qualification to purchase.
2307.Form and contents of contracts, mortgages, and other instruments.
2308.Conclusive evidence of compliance with chapter.
2309.Administrative review.
2310.Repossession of property; powers of Commission.
2311.Community Disposal Operations Fund.
2312.Authorization of appropriations.
2313.Transfer of functions.
2314, 2315. Repealed.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—LOTS, APPRAISALS, AND PRICES ####

2321.Lots; establishment of boundaries.
2322.Appraisal of property.
2323.Basis of appraisal.
2324.Posting of lists showing appraised value.
2325.Sales price.
2326.Deductions from sales price.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—CLASSIFICATION OF PROPERTY AND PRIORITIES ####

2331.Classification of property.
2332.Priorities; uniformity; preferences; impairment of rights.
2333.Transfer of priorities.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—SALES OF PROPERTY FOR PRIVATE USE ####

2341.Applicability of subchapter.
2342.Disposal of property.
2343.Sales.
2344.Cash sales.
2345.Deeds; form and provisions.
2346.Occupancy by existing tenants.
2347.Sale of lots to lessees or individual owners.
2348.Priority sale of apartment houses.
2349.Hanford project; disposal of property.
#### SUBCHAPTER V—FINANCING ####

2361.Contract to purchase by priority purchaser.
2362.Financing by Commission.
2363.Indemnity obligation of Commission; incorporation by reference in deed.
2364.Community employment and population.
2365.Amount of indemnity.
2366.Conditions of indemnity; purchase of property by Commission.
#### SUBCHAPTER VI—UTILITIES ####

2371.Transfer of utilities.
2372.Date of transfer of utilities.
2373.Transfer to governmental or other legal entity; determination of transferee.
2374.Utilities transferable.
2375.Gift of utility to city; charges and terms for utilities transferred to other transferees.
#### SUBCHAPTER VII—MUNICIPALITIES ####

2381.Assistance in organization.
2382.Transfer of municipal installations.
2383.Date of transfer.
2384.Transfer to governmental entity or private nonprofit organization; determination of transferee.
2385.Installations transferable.
2386.Transfer of installations without charge.
#### SUBCHAPTER VIII—LOCAL ASSISTANCE ####

2391.Assistance to governmental entities.
2392.Reduction of payments.
2393.Payments in anticipation of services; withholding of payments.
2394.Contract to make payments.

### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ###

