
### §18861. Office of Clean Energy Demonstrations ###

§18861. Office of Clean Energy Demonstrations

#### (a) Definitions ####

In this section:

#### (1) Covered project ####

The term "covered project" means a demonstration project of the Department that—

(A) receives or is eligible to receive funding from the Secretary; and

(B) is authorized under—

(i) this division; or

(ii) the Energy Act of 2020 (Public Law 116–260; 134 Stat. 1182).[1](#18861_1_target)

#### (2) Program ####

The term "program" means the program established under subsection (b).

#### (b) Establishment ####

The Secretary, in coordination with the heads of relevant program offices of the Department, including the Office of Technology Transitions, the Loan Program Office, and all applied program offices, shall establish a program to conduct project management and oversight of covered projects, including by—

(1) conducting evaluations of proposals for covered projects before the selection of a covered project for funding;

(2) conducting independent oversight of the execution of a covered project after funding has been awarded for that covered project; and

(3) ensuring a balanced portfolio of investments in covered projects.

#### (c) Duties ####

The Secretary shall appoint a head of the program who shall, in coordination with the heads of relevant program offices of the Department—

(1) evaluate proposals for covered projects, including scope, technical specifications, maturity of design, funding profile, estimated costs, proposed schedule, proposed technical and financial milestones, and potential for commercial success based on economic and policy projections;

(2) develop independent cost estimates for a proposal for a covered project, if appropriate;

(3) recommend to the head of a program office of the Department, as appropriate, whether to fund a proposal for a covered project;

(4) oversee the execution of covered projects that receive funding from the Secretary, including reconciling estimated costs as compared to actual costs;

(5) conduct reviews of ongoing covered projects, including—

(A) evaluating the progress of a covered project based on the proposed schedule and technical and financial milestones; and

(B) providing the evaluations under subparagraph (A) to the Secretary; and

(6) assess the lessons learned in overseeing covered projects and implement improvements in the process of evaluating and overseeing covered projects.

#### (d) Employees ####

To carry out the program, the Secretary may hire appropriate personnel, including by using the authorities in section 19321 of this title, to perform the duties of the program.

#### (e) Additional authority ####

The Secretary may solicit, select, and manage covered projects directly through the program.

#### (f) Project termination ####

Should an ongoing covered project receive an unfavorable review under subsection (c)(5), the Secretary or their designee may cease funding the covered project and reallocate the remaining funds to new or existing covered projects carried out by that program office.

#### (g) Coordination ####

In carrying out the program, the head of the program shall coordinate with—

(1) project management and acquisition management entities with the Department, including the Office of Project Management; and

(2) professional organizations in project management, construction, cost estimation, and other relevant fields.

#### (h) Reports ####

#### (1) Report by Secretary ####

In accordance with section 16391a of this title, the Secretary shall include in each updated technology transfer execution plan submitted under subsection (h)(2) of section 16391 of this title information on the implementation of and progress made under the program, including, for the year covered by the report—

(A) the covered projects under the purview of the program; and

(B) the review of each covered project carried out under subsection (c)(5).

#### (2) Report by Comptroller General ####

Not later than 3 years after November 15, 2021, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives a report evaluating the operation of the program, including—

(A) a description of the processes and procedures used by the program to evaluate proposals of covered projects and the oversight of covered projects; and

(B) any recommended changes in the program, including changes to—

(i) the processes and procedures described in subparagraph (A); and

(ii) the structure of the program, for the purpose of better carrying out the program.

#### (i) Omitted ####

(Pub. L. 117–58, div. D, title XII, §41201, Nov. 15, 2021, 135 Stat. 1130; Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title VI, §10723, Aug. 9, 2022, 136 Stat. 1709.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

This division, referred to in subsec. (a)(1)(B)(i), is div. D of Pub. L. 117–58, Nov. 15, 2021, 135 Stat. 923, which enacted this chapter and enacted and amended numerous other sections and notes in the Code. For complete classification of div. D to the Code, see Tables.

The Energy Act of 2020, referred to in subsec. (a)(1)(B)(ii), is div. Z of Pub. L. 116–260, Dec. 27, 2020, 134 Stat. 2418. For complete classification of div. Z to the Code, see Short Title of 2020 Amendment note under section 17001 of this title and Tables.

#### Codification ####

Section is comprised of section 41201 of div. D of Pub. L. 117–58. Subsec. (g) (now subsec. (i)) of section 41201 of div. D of Pub. L. 117–58 amended section 16391 of this title.

#### Amendments ####

**2022**—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 117–167, §10723(1), inserted "including the Office of Technology Transitions, the Loan Program Office, and all applied program offices," after "Department," in introductory provisions.

Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 117–167, §10723(2), inserted ", including by using the authorities in section 19321 of this title," after "personnel".

Subsecs. (e) to (i). Pub. L. 117–167, §10723(3)–(5), added subsecs. (e) and (f), redesignated former subsecs. (e) to (g) as (g) to (i), respectively, and in introductory provisions of subsec. (h)(1), as redesignated, substituted "In accordance with section 16391a of this title, the Secretary" for "The Secretary".

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Wage Rate Requirements ####

For provisions relating to rates of wages to be paid to laborers and mechanics on projects for construction, alteration, or repair work funded under div. D or an amendment by div. D of Pub. L. 117–58, including authority of Secretary of Labor, see section 18851 of this title.

[1 See References in Text note below.](#18861_1)

### **CHAPTER 163—RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT, COMPETITION, AND INNOVATION** ###

Sec.
18901.Definitions.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY SCIENCE FOR THE FUTURE ####

18911.Basic energy sciences program.
18912.Research security.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STANDARDS AND TECHNOLOGY FOR THE FUTURE ####

18921.Definitions.

#### Part A—Measurement Research ####

18931.Engineering biology and biometrology.
18932.Greenhouse gas measurement research.
18933.Software security and authentication.
18934.Biometrics research and testing.
18935.Dissemination of resources for research institutions.
18936.Neutron scattering.
18937.Artificial intelligence.
18938.Sustainable chemistry research and education.
18939.Premise plumbing research.
18940.Dr. David Satcher Cybersecurity Education Grant Program.
#### Part B—General Activities ####

18951.International standards development.
18952.Standards development organization grants.
#### Part C—Hollings Manufacturing Extension Partnership ####

18961.National Supply Chain Database.
#### Part D—Manufacturing USA Program ####

18971.Expanding opportunities through the Manufacturing USA Program.
18972.Promoting domestic production of technologies developed under Manufacturing USA Program.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION FOR THE FUTURE ####

#### Part A—Preliminary Matters ####

18981.Definitions.
#### Part B—STEM Education ####

18991.PreK–12 STEM education.
18992.Undergraduate STEM education.
18993.Graduate STEM education.
18994.STEM workforce data.
18995.Cyber workforce development research and development.
18996.Cybersecurity workforce data initiative.
18997.Microelectronics workforce development activities.
18998.Mandatory cost-sharing.
18999.Programs to address the STEM workforce.
#### Part C—Broadening Participation ####

19011.Robert Noyce Teacher Scholarship program update.
19012.NSF Eddie Bernice Johnson INCLUDES Initiative.
19013.Broadening participation on major facilities awards.
19014.Expanding geographic and institutional diversity in research.
19015.Diversity in tech research.
19016.Chief Diversity Officer of the NSF.
19017.Research and dissemination to increase the participation of women and underrepresented minorities in STEM fields.
19018.Intramural emerging research institutions pilot program.
#### Part D—NSF Research Security ####

19031.Office of Research Security and Policy.
19032.Chief of Research Security.
19033.Reporting to Congress.
19034.Online resource.
19035.Research awards.
19036.Authorities.
19037.Research security and integrity information sharing analysis organization.
19038.Plan with respect to controlled information and background screening.
19039.Foundation funding to institutions hosting or supporting Confucius Institutes.
19040.Foreign financial support.
#### Part E—Fundamental Research ####

19051.Broader impacts.
19052.Research ethics.
19053.Research reproducibility and replicability.
19054.Climate change research.
19055.Social, behavioral, and economic sciences.
19056.Measuring impacts of Federally funded research and development.
19057.Food-energy-water research.
19058.Biological field stations and marine laboratories.
19059.Sustainable chemistry research and education.
19060.Risk and resilience research.
19061.Unmanned aircraft systems technologies.
19062.Accelerating unmanned maritime systems technologies.
19063.Leveraging international expertise in research.
19064.Biological research collections.
19065.Clean water research and technology acceleration.
19066.Technology and behavioral science research.
19067.Critical minerals mining research and development.
19068.Advancing IoT for Precision Agriculture Capabilities Act.
19069.Astronomy and satellite constellations.
19070.Research on the impact of inflation.
19071.Microgravity utilization policy.
#### Part F—Research Infrastructure ####

19081.Facility operation and maintenance.
19082.Reviews.
19083.Helium conservation.
19084.Advanced computing.
19085.National secure data service.
#### Part G—Directorate for Technology, Innovation, and Partnerships ####

19101.Establishment.
19102.Purposes.
19103.Activities.
19104.Requirements.
19105.Assistant Director.
19106.Advisory committee.
19107.Challenges and focus areas.
19108.Regional Innovation Engines.
19109.Translation Accelerator.
19110.Test beds.
19111.Planning and capacity building awards.
19112.Entrepreneurial fellowships.
19113.Scholarships and fellowships.
19114.Research and development awards.
19115.Scaling innovations in PreK–12 STEM education.
19116.Authorities.
19117.Coordination of activities.
19118.Ethical, legal, and societal considerations.
19119.Reports and roadmaps.
19120.Evaluation.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—BIOECONOMY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ####

19131.Definitions.
19132.National Engineering Biology Research and Development Initiative.
19133.Initiative coordination.
19134.Advisory committee on engineering biology research and development.
19135.Agency activities.
19136.Rule of construction.
#### SUBCHAPTER V—BROADENING PARTICIPATION IN SCIENCE ####

#### Part A—STEM Opportunities ####

19151.Federal research agency policies for caregivers.
19152.Collection and reporting of data on Federal research awards.
19153.Policies for review of Federal research awards.
19154.Collection of data on demographics of faculty.
19155.Cultural and institutional barriers to expanding the academic and Federal STEM workforce.
19156.Existing activities.
19157.Merit review.
19158.Definition.
#### Part B—Rural STEM Education Research ####

19171.Definition.
19172.National Science Foundation rural STEM activities.
19173.Opportunities for online education.
19174.NIST engagement with rural communities.
#### Part C—MSI STEM Achievement ####

19181.Agency responsibilities.
19182.Research at the National Science Foundation.
19183.Capacity-building program for developing universities.
19184.Definitions.
#### Part D—Combating Sexual Harassment in Science ####

19191.Findings.
19192.Purpose.
19193.Definition.
19194.Research awards.
19195.Interagency working group.
#### SUBCHAPTER VI—MISCELLANEOUS SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY PROVISIONS ####

#### Part A—Supporting Early-Career Researchers ####

19211.Early-career research fellowship program.
#### Part B—National Science and Technology Strategy ####

19221.Strategy and report on the nation's economic security, science, research, and innovation to support the national security strategy.
19222.National research and development strategy for distributed ledger technology.
#### Part C—Research Security ####

19231.Requirements for foreign talent recruitment programs.
19232.Malign foreign talent recruitment program prohibition.
19233.Review of contracts and agreements.
19234.Research security training requirement for Federal research award personnel.
19235.Person or entity of concern prohibition.
19236.Nondiscrimination.
19237.Definitions.
#### Part D—Interagency Working Group ####

19251.Interagency working group.
#### Part E—Quantum Networking and Communications ####

19261.Quantum networking and communications.
#### Part F—Blockchain Specialist ####

19271.Establishment of blockchain and cryptocurrency specialist position within OSTP.
#### Part G—Partnerships for Energy Security and Innovation ####

19281.Foundation for Energy Security and Innovation.
#### Part H—Energizing Technology Transfer ####

19291.Definitions.
#### subpart 1—national clean energy technology transfer programs ####

19301.National Clean Energy Incubator Program.
19302.Clean Energy Technology University Prize competition.
19303.Clean energy technology transfer coordination.
#### subpart 2—supporting technology development at the national laboratories ####

19311.Lab-Embedded Entrepreneurship Program.
19312.Entrepreneurial leave program.
19313.National Laboratory non-Federal employee outside employment authority.
#### subpart 3—department of energy modernization ####

19321.Special hiring authority for scientific, engineering, and project management personnel.
#### Part I—Micro Act ####

19331.Microelectronics research for energy innovation.
#### Part J—Applied Laboratories Infrastructure Restoration and Modernization ####

19341.Applied laboratories infrastructure restoration and modernization.
#### Part K—Fission for the Future ####

19351.Advanced nuclear technologies Federal research, development, and demonstration program.

