
### §1757. Definition ###

§1757. Definition

For purposes of this subchapter, the term "Delegate" means the Resident Representative referred to in section 1751 of this title.

(Pub. L. 110–229, title VII, §717, May 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 869.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

This subchapter, referred to in text, was in the original "this subtitle", meaning subtitle B (§§711–718) of title VII of Pub. L. 110–229, May 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 868, which enacted this subchapter and amended sections 4342, 6954 and 9432 of Title 10, Armed Forces. For complete classification of subtitle B to the Code, see Tables.

### **CHAPTER 17—NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—APPROVAL OF COVENANT AND SUPPLEMENTAL PROVISIONS ####

Sec.
1801.Approval of Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
1802.Consideration of issues affecting relations with United States.
1803.Financial assistance to Government of Northern Mariana Islands.
1804.Direct grant assistance.
1805.Failure to meet performance standards; resolution of issues; withholding of funds.
1806.Immigration and transition.
1807.Technical assistance program.
1808.Operations.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—JUDICIAL MATTERS ####

1821.District Court for the Northern Mariana Islands.
1822.Jurisdiction of District Court; original jurisdiction; procedural requirements.
1823.Appellate jurisdiction of District Court; procedure; review by United States Court of Appeals for Ninth Circuit; rules.
1824.Relations between courts of United States and courts of Northern Mariana Islands; applicability of statutory provisions.
1825.Effective date.
1826.Authorization of appropriations.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—MISCELLANEOUS ####

1841.Funds and services.
1842.Covering into Commonwealth treasury of tax proceeds collected pursuant to Covenant.
1843.Exemption from taxation for income derived from sources within Commonwealth.
1844.Political union between Territory of Guam and Commonwealth of Northern Mariana Islands.
1845.Plans for development, utilization, and conservation of water and related land resources.
1846.Exemption from assessment and taxation of real property owned by Commonwealth in United States capital.

### SUBCHAPTER I—APPROVAL OF COVENANT AND SUPPLEMENTAL PROVISIONS ###

