
### §2110. Rule of construction ###

§2110. Rule of construction

Nothing in this chapter (or an amendment made by this chapter) shall be construed to affect—

(1) the regulation of dietary supplements under the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994 (Public Law 103–417); or

(2) the adverse event reporting system for dietary supplements created under the Dietary Supplement and Nonprescription Drug Consumer Protection Act (Public Law 109–462).

(Pub. L. 110–85, title X, §1011, Sept. 27, 2007, 121 Stat. 971.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original "this title", meaning title X of Pub. L. 110–85, Sept. 27, 2007, 121 Stat. 962, which enacted this chapter and section 350f of this title, amended sections 321 and 331 of this title, and enacted provisions set out as notes under this section and section 350f of this title. For complete classification of title X to the Code, see Tables.

The Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994, referred to in par. (1), is Pub. L. 103–417, Oct. 25, 1994, 108 Stat. 4325, which enacted sections 343–2 and 350b of this title and section 287c–11 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, amended sections 321, 331, 342, 343, and 350 of this title and section 281 of Title 42, and enacted provisions set out as notes under sections 321 and 343 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1994 Amendments note set out under section 301 of this title and Tables.

The Dietary Supplement and Nonprescription Drug Consumer Protection Act, referred to in par. (2), is Pub. L. 109–462, Dec. 22, 2006, 120 Stat. 3469, which enacted sections 379aa and 379aa–1 of this title, amended sections 331, 343, 352, and 381 of this title, and enacted provisions set out as notes under sections 331, 343, 352, 379aa, and 381 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 2006 Amendment note set out under section 301 of this title and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Construction ####

Pub. L. 110–85, title X, §1005(g), Sept. 27, 2007, 121 Stat. 969, provided that: "Nothing in this title [enacting this chapter and section 350f of this title, amending sections 321 and 331 of this title, and enacting provisions set out as notes under section 350f of this title], or an amendment made by this title, shall be construed to alter the jurisdiction between the Secretaries of Agriculture and of Health and Human Services, under applicable statutes and regulations."

### **CHAPTER 27—FOOD SAFETY MODERNIZATION** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—IMPROVING CAPACITY TO PREVENT FOOD SAFETY PROBLEMS ####

Sec.
2201.Performance standards.
2202.National Agriculture and Food Defense Strategy.
2203.Food and Agriculture Coordinating Councils.
2204.Building domestic capacity.
2205.Food allergy and anaphylaxis management.
2206.Alcohol-related facilities.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—IMPROVING CAPACITY TO DETECT AND RESPOND TO FOOD SAFETY PROBLEMS ####

2221.Food emergency response network.
2222.Integrated consortium of laboratory networks.
2223.Enhancing tracking and tracing of food and recordkeeping.
2224.Surveillance.
2225.Decontamination and disposal standards and plans.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—IMPROVING THE SAFETY OF IMPORTED FOOD ####

2241.Inspection by the Secretary of Commerce.
2242.Foreign offices of the Food and Drug Administration.
2243.Smuggled food.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS ####

2251.Jurisdiction; authorities.
2252.Compliance with international agreements.

### SUBCHAPTER I—IMPROVING CAPACITY TO PREVENT FOOD SAFETY PROBLEMS ###

