
### §4608. Authorization of appropriations ###

§4608. Authorization of appropriations

#### (a) Department of the Interior ####

There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary such sums as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter, not to exceed the amount expended for such purposes for fiscal year 1990.

#### (b) Other Federal agencies ####

There are authorized to be appropriated to other Federal departments and agencies such sums as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of any other Take Pride in America programs established by such departments or agencies.

(Pub. L. 101–628, title XI, §1109, Nov. 28, 1990, 104 Stat. 4503.)

### **CHAPTER 67—AQUATIC NUISANCE PREVENTION AND CONTROL** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ####

Sec.
4701.Findings and purposes.
4702.Definitions.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—PREVENTION OF UNINTENTIONAL INTRODUCTIONS OF NONINDIGENOUS AQUATIC SPECIES ####

4711.Repealed.
4712.National ballast water management information.
4713.Armed services ballast water programs.
4714.Ballast water management demonstration program.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—PREVENTION AND CONTROL OF AQUATIC NUISANCE SPECIES DISPERSAL ####

4721.Establishment of Task Force.
4722.Aquatic nuisance species program.
4723.Regional coordination.
4724.State aquatic nuisance species management plans.
4725.Relationship to other laws.
4726.International cooperation.
4727.Intentional introductions policy review.
4728.Brown tree snake control program.
4729.Coastal Aquatic Invasive Species Mitigation Grant Program and Mitigation Fund.
4730.Great Lakes and Lake Champlain Invasive Species Program.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS ####

4741.Authorization of appropriations.
#### SUBCHAPTER V—COOPERATIVE ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSES ####

4751.Environmental impact analyses.

### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ###

