
### §731. Effect on other laws ###

§731. Effect on other laws

Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as exempting any portion of the Mississippi River from the provisions of Federal laws for the improvement, preservation, and protection of navigable waters, nor as authorizing any interference with the operations of the Department of the Army in carrying out any project now or hereafter adopted for the improvement of said river.

(June 7, 1924, ch. 346, §13, 43 Stat. 652; July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title II, §205(a), 61 Stat. 501.)

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Change of Name ####

Department of War designated Department of the Army and title of Secretary of War changed to Secretary of the Army by section 205(a) of act July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title II, 61 Stat. 501. Section 205(a) of act July 26, 1947, was repealed by section 53 of act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 641. Section 1 of act Aug. 10, 1956, enacted "Title 10, Armed Forces" which in sections 3010 to 3013 continued military Department of the Army under administrative supervision of Secretary of the Army.

### **CHAPTER 9—FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE** ###

Sec.
741, 742.Repealed or Omitted.
742a.Declaration of policy.
742b.United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
742b–1.Assistant Director for Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration Programs.
742c.Loans for financing or refinancing of cost of purchasing, constructing, equipping, maintaining, repairing, or operating commercial fishing vessels or gear.
742c–1.Investment in obligations of the United States; proceeds to be used for fisheries.
742d.Investigations; preparation and dissemination of information; reports.
742d–1.Studies of effects in use of chemicals.
742e.Transfer of functions to Secretary.
742f.Powers of Secretaries of the Interior and Commerce.
742f–1.National Volunteer Coordination Program.
742g.Cooperation with State Department.
742h.Reports on fishery products.
742i.Effect on rights of States and international commissions.
742j.Authorization of appropriations.
742j–1.Airborne hunting.
742j–2.Uniform allowance.
742k.Management and disposition of vessels and other property acquired and arising out of fishery loans or related type of activities.
742*l.*Enforcement authority for the protection of fish and wildlife resources.
742l–1.Authority to use available law enforcement funds.
742m.Relinquishment of exclusive legislative jurisdiction.
743.Repealed.
743a.Detail of personnel and loan of equipment to Director of Bureau of Sport Fisheries and Wildlife.
744.Investigations; fish propagation; investigations of damages by predacious fishes; executive assistance.
745.Powers of Secretary.
746.Vessels of Fish and Wildlife Service.
746a.Operation and maintenance fees for the M/V Tiglax and other vessels.
747.Omitted.
748.Expenditure of appropriations for propagation of food fishes.
749.Omitted.
750.Station on Mississippi River for rescue of fishes and propagation of mussels.
751.Personnel.
752.Omitted.
753.Cooperative work.
753a.Cooperative research and training programs for fish and wildlife resources.
753b.Authorization of appropriations.
754.Commutation of rations for officers and crews of vessels of Service.
754a.Appropriations for United States Fish and Wildlife Service; purchases from.
754b.Funds from private entities credited to Resource Management account.
754c.Work under reimbursable agreements; recording obligations and crediting amounts received.
754d.Fee schedule for forensic laboratory services.
754e.Funds for contaminant sample analyses.

