
### §504. Delegation of authority by Secretary of Defense; contributions for support ###

§504. Delegation of authority by Secretary of Defense; contributions for support

The Secretary of Defense is authorized, in his discretion, to transfer to the Secretary of the Army or the Secretary of the Navy, and to retransfer from either of such Secretaries to the other or to the Secretary of the Air Force, all, or any part of, the authority granted by sections 501 and 502 of this title; and, in connection with any such transfer or retransfer, to transfer all or any part of the funds available for the establishment and support of the joint long-range proving ground for guided missiles and other weapons. The Secretary of Defense is further authorized to permit, to the extent that he may deem appropriate, the Secretaries of the Army, the Navy, and the Air Force to contribute, with or without reimbursement, to the establishment and support of the joint long-range proving ground for guided missiles authorized by this chapter, by the loan, assignment, or transfer of personnel, supplies, equipment, and services.

(May 11, 1949, ch. 98, §4, 63 Stat. 66.)

### **CHAPTER 20—WIND TUNNELS** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—CONSTRUCTION OF WIND-TUNNEL FACILITIES ####

Sec.
511.Joint development of unitary plan for construction of facilities; construction at educational institutions.
512.Limitation on cost of construction and equipment; vesting of title to facilities.
513.Expansion of existing facilities; appropriations; testing of models.
514.Expansion of facilities at Carderock, Maryland.
515.Reports to Congress.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—AIR ENGINEERING DEVELOPMENT CENTER ####

521.Establishment; construction, maintenance, and operation of public works and wind tunnels.
522.Acquisition of lands; advance payments for construction.
523.Employment of civilian personnel.
524.Authorization of appropriations.

### SUBCHAPTER I—CONSTRUCTION OF WIND-TUNNEL FACILITIES ###

