
### §60312. Rights under treaties preserved ###

§60312. Rights under treaties preserved

This chapter and chapter 605 of this title do not affect a right or privilege of a foreign country relating to tonnage taxes or other duties on vessels under a law or treaty of the United States.

(Pub. L. 109–304, §9(b), Oct. 6, 2006, 120 Stat. 1679.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 60312 | 46 App.:121 (last sentence words before semicolon). | R.S. §4219 (last sentence words between 1st and last semicolons); Feb. 27, 1877, ch. 69, §1, 19 Stat. 250. |
|| 46 App.:135. | R.S. §4227. |

The words "This chapter and chapter 605 of this title" are substituted for "title 48 of the Revised Statutes" in 46 App. U.S.C. 135 because the provisions of title 48 of the Revised Statutes which are still alive and relate to tonnage or other duties on vessels are restated in these two chapters. Although these two chapters restate other provisions which are not from title 48 of the Revised Statutes, expansion of the reference to include those provisions is done for consistency.

### **CHAPTER 605—DISCRIMINATING DUTIES AND RECIPROCAL PRIVILEGES** ###

Sec.
60501.Vessels allowed to import.
60502.Discriminating duty on goods imported in foreign vessels or from contiguous countries.
60503.Reciprocal suspension of discriminating duties.
60504.Reciprocal privileges for recreational vessels.
60505.Retaliatory suspension of commercial privileges.
60506.Retaliation against British dominions of North America.
60507.Suspension of free passage through Saint Marys Falls Canal.

