
### §100906. Advisory committees ###

§100906. Advisory committees

(a) Establishment.—To facilitate the administration of the System, the Secretary, under such terms and conditions as the Secretary may consider advisable, may appoint and establish advisory committees in regard to the functions of the Service as the Secretary considers advisable.

(b) Charter Exception On Renewal.—Section 1013(b) of title 5 is waived with respect to any advisory commission or advisory committee established by law in connection with any System unit during the period for which the commission or committee is authorized by law.

(c) Service of Members.—Any member of any advisory commission or advisory committee established in connection with any System unit may serve after the expiration of the member's term until a successor is appointed.

(d) Compensation and Travel Expenses.—Members of an advisory committee established under subsection (a) shall receive no compensation for their services as such but shall be allowed necessary travel expenses as authorized by section 5703 of title 5.

(Pub. L. 113–287, §3, Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3118; Pub. L. 117–286, §4(a)(328), Dec. 27, 2022, 136 Stat. 4342.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 100906(a) | 16 U.S.C. 1a–2 (matter before (a), (c) (words before comma). | Pub. L. 91–383, §3 (matter before (a)), (c), Aug. 18, 1970, 84 Stat. 826; Pub. L. 106–176, title I, §118(2), (3), Mar. 10, 2000, 114 Stat. 28. |
| 100906(b), (c) | 16 U.S.C. 1a–14. | Pub. L. 102–525, title III, §301, Oct. 26, 1992, 106 Stat. 3441. |
| 100906(d) | 16 U.S.C. 1a–2(c) (words after comma). ||

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2022**—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 117–286 substituted "Section 1013(b) of title 5" for "Section 14(b) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.)".

### **CHAPTER 1011—DONATIONS** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY ####

Sec.
101101.Authority to accept land, rights-of-way, buildings, other property, and money.
101102.Authority to accept and use funds to consolidate Federal land ownership.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—NATIONAL PARK FOUNDATION ####

101111.Purpose and establishment of Foundation.
101112.Board.
101113.Gifts, devises, or bequests.
101114.Disposition of property or income.
101115.Corporate succession and powers and duties acting as trustee; personal liability for malfeasance.
101116.Corporate powers.
101117.Authority of Board.
101118.Tax exemptions; contributions toward costs of local government; contributions, gifts, or transfers to or for use of United States.
101119.Liability of United States.
101120.Promotion of local fundraising support.
101121.Second Century Endowment for the National Park Service.
101122.Authorization of appropriations; use of funds.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2016**—Pub. L. 114–289, title II, §202(b), title IV, §402(b), Dec. 16, 2016, 130 Stat. 1486, 1488, added items 101121 and 101122.

### SUBCHAPTER I—AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY ###

