
### §3703. Rate of payment for advertisements, notices, and proposals ###

§3703. Rate of payment for advertisements, notices, and proposals

Advertisements, notices, proposals for contracts, and all forms of advertising required by law for the several departments of the Government may be paid for at a price not to exceed the commercial rates charged to private individuals, with the usual discounts. But the heads of the several departments may secure lower terms at special rates when the public interest requires it. The rates shall include the furnishing of lawful evidence, under oath, of publication, to be made and furnished by the printer or publisher making publication.

(Pub. L. 90–620, Oct. 22, 1968, 82 Stat. 1305.)

#### Historical and Revision Notes ####

Based on 44 U.S. Code, 1964 ed., §§322, 325 (R.S. §853; June 20, 1878, ch. 359, §1, 20 Stat. 216; Sept. 23, 1950, ch. 1010, §5, 64 Stat. 986).

The second sentence of former section 325 was added. The balance was superseded by former section 322 which will be found in section 3703 of the revision.

### **CHAPTER 39—GOVERNMENT PUBLISHING OFFICE: OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL** ###

Sec.
3901.Purpose and establishment of the Office of Inspector General.
3902.Appointment of Inspector General; supervision; removal; pay; limits on bonuses; counsel.
3903.Duties, responsibilities, authority, and reports.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2019**—Pub. L. 116–94, div. P, title XVI, §1602(c)(2), Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 3212, substituted "Appointment of Inspector General; supervision; removal; pay; limits on bonuses; counsel" for "Appointment of Inspector General; supervision; removal" in item 3902.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Change of Name ####

"Government Publishing Office" substituted for "Government Printing Office" in chapter heading on authority of section 1301(b) of Pub. L. 113–235, div. H, title I, Dec. 16, 2014, 128 Stat. 2537, set out as a note preceding section 301 of this title.

