
### §4226. Fees and official monies from diplomatic missions, consular offices and district accounting and disbursing offices; disposition ###

§4226. Fees and official monies from diplomatic missions, consular offices and district accounting and disbursing offices; disposition

All fees and other official monies received by diplomatic missions or consular offices or by the district accounting and disbursing offices provided in section 4225 of this title, may be transmitted through the Department of State for deposit in the United States Treasury, or may be used in payment of salaries, allowances, and current expenses of said missions and offices, under such rules and regulations as the President may from time to time prescribe; the residue, if any, to be transmitted through the Department of State for deposit in the United States Treasury. Section 3302(b) of title 31 is hereby amended.

(May 24, 1924, ch. 182, §36, as added Feb. 23, 1931, ch. 276, §7, 46 Stat. 1216.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

"Section 3302(b) of title 31" substituted in text for "Section 3617 of the Revised Statutes of the United States (U.S.C., title 31, sec. 484)", on authority of Pub. L. 97–258, §4(b), Sept. 13, 1982, 96 Stat. 1067, the first section of which enacted Title 31, Money and Finance.

Section was not enacted as part of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 which comprises this chapter.

Section was formerly classified to section 814 of this title, and prior thereto to section 23l of this title.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date ####

Section effective July 1, 1931, see section 7 of act Feb. 23, 1931, set out as an Effective Date of 1931 Amendment note under section 4224 of this title.

### **CHAPTER 53—AUTHORITIES RELATING TO THE REGULATION OF FOREIGN MISSIONS** ###

Sec.
4301.Congressional declaration of findings and policy.
4302.Definitions.
4303.Authorities of Secretary of State.
4304.Provision of benefits.
4304a.Enforcement of compliance with liability insurance requirements.
4304b.Crimes committed by diplomats.
4305.Property of foreign missions.
4306.Location of foreign missions in the District of Columbia.
4307.Preemption.
4308.General provisions.
4309.Application to public international organizations and official missions to such organizations.
4309a.United States responsibilities for employees of the United Nations.
4310.Privileges and immunities.
4311.Enforcement.
4312.Presidential guidelines.
4313.Severability.
4314.Extraordinary protective services.
4315.Use of foreign mission in manner incompatible with its status as foreign mission.
4316.Application of travel restrictions to personnel of certain countries and organizations.

