
### §51707. Merchant mariner recruitment, training, and retention strategic plan ###

§51707. Merchant mariner recruitment, training, and retention strategic plan

(a) [1](#51707_1_target) Strategic Plan.—

(1) In general.—Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this section, and at least once every five years thereafter until the termination date under paragraph (6), the Secretary of Transportation, acting through the Administrator of the Maritime Administration, shall publish in the Federal Register a plan to recruit, train, and retain merchant mariners for the five-year period following the date of publication of the most recently published plan under this paragraph.

(2) Contents.—A plan published under paragraph (1) shall contain—

(A) a strategy to address merchant mariner recruitment, training, and retention issues in the United States; and

(B) demonstration and research priorities concerning merchant mariner recruitment, training, and retention.

(3) Factors.—In developing a plan under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall take into account, at a minimum—

(A) the availability of existing research (as of the date of publication of the plan); and

(B) the need to ensure results that have broad applicability for the United States merchant marine workforce development.

(4) Consultation.—In developing a plan under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consult with representatives of the maritime industry, labor organizations, including the Commander of the Transportation Command and the Commander of the Military Sealift Command, and other governmental entities and stakeholders in the maritime industry.

(5) Transmittal to congress.—The Secretary shall transmit copies of any plan published under paragraph (1) to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate.

(6) Termination date.—The requirement to publish a plan under this paragraph shall terminate on the date that the Administrator of the Maritime Administration determines that there is an adequate number of United States mariners for sustained strategic sealift.

(Added Pub. L. 116–283, div. C, title XXXV, §3508(a), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4405.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

The date of the enactment of this section, referred to in subsec. (a)(1), is the date of enactment of Pub. L. 116–283, which was approved Jan. 1, 2021.

[1 So in original. No subsec. (b) has been enacted.](#51707_1)

### **CHAPTER 519—MERCHANT MARINE AWARDS** ###

Sec.
51901.Awards for individual acts or service.
51902.Gallant Ship Award.
51903.Multiple awards.
51904.Presentation to representatives.
51905.Flags and grave markers.
51906.Special certificates for civilian service to armed forces.
51907.Provision of decorations, medals, and replacements [1](#CHAPTER519_1_target)
51908.Prohibition against unauthorized manufacture, sale, possession, or display of awards.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2008**—Pub. L. 110–181, div. C, title XXXV, §3523(a)(5)(B), Jan. 28, 2008, 122 Stat. 599, substituted "Provision of decorations, medals, and replacements" for "Manufacture and sale of awards and replacements." in item 51907.

[1 So in original. Probably should be followed by a period.](#CHAPTER519_1)

