
### §1730. Authorization of appropriations ###

§1730. Authorization of appropriations

#### (a) In general ####

There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subchapter $12,000,000 for each fiscal year, of which $8,000,000 is authorized to carry out priority projects and $4,000,000 of which is authorized to carry out other appropriate conservation projects.

#### (b) Disaster relief or prevention projects ####

Notwithstanding subsection (a), any amounts made available under that subsection shall be available for disaster prevention or relief projects.

#### (c) Availability of funds ####

Notwithstanding any other provision of law, amounts appropriated for any fiscal year to carry out this subchapter shall remain available for obligation and expenditure until the end of the fiscal year following the fiscal year for which the amounts are appropriated.

(Pub. L. 91–378, title II, §213, formerly §211, as added Pub. L. 109–154, §2(f)(2), Dec. 30, 2005, 119 Stat. 2892; renumbered §213, Pub. L. 116–9, title IX, §9003(f)(1), Mar. 12, 2019, 133 Stat. 835.)

### **CHAPTER 38—FISHERY CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERALLY ####

Sec.
1801.Findings, purposes and policy.
1802.Definitions.
1803.Authorization of appropriations.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—UNITED STATES RIGHTS AND AUTHORITY REGARDING FISH AND FISHERY RESOURCES ####

1811.United States sovereign rights to fish and fishery management authority.
1812.Highly migratory species.
1813.Omitted.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—FOREIGN FISHING AND INTERNATIONAL FISHERY AGREEMENTS ####

1821.Foreign fishing.
1822.International fishery agreements.
1823.Congressional oversight of international fishery agreements.
1824.Permits for foreign fishing.
1825.Import prohibitions.
1826.Large-scale driftnet fishing.
1826a.Denial of port privileges and sanctions for high seas large-scale driftnet fishing.
1826b.Duration of denial of port privileges and sanctions.
1826c.Definitions.
1826d.Prohibition.
1826e.Negotiations.
1826f.Certification.
1826g.Enforcement.
1826h.Biennial report on international compliance.
1826i.Action to strengthen international fishery management organizations.
1826j.Illegal, unreported, or unregulated fishing.
1826k.Equivalent conservation measures.
1827.Observer program regarding certain foreign fishing.
1827a.Prohibition on sale of billfish.
1828.Foreign fishing incursions.
1829.International monitoring and compliance.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—NATIONAL FISHERY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM ####

1851.National standards for fishery conservation and management.
1852.Regional Fishery Management Councils.
1853.Contents of fishery management plans.
1853a.Limited access privilege programs.
1854.Action by Secretary.
1855.Other requirements and authority.
1856.State jurisdiction.
1857.Prohibited acts.
1858.Civil penalties and permit sanctions.
1859.Criminal offenses.
1860.Civil forfeitures.
1861.Enforcement.
1861a.Transition to sustainable fisheries.
1861b.Fisheries enforcement plans and reporting.
1862.North Pacific fisheries conservation.
1863.Northwest Atlantic Ocean Fisheries Reinvestment Program.
1864.Repealed.
1865.Bycatch reduction engineering program.
1866.Shark feeding.
1867.Cooperative research and management program.
1868.Herring study.
1869.Restoration study.
#### SUBCHAPTER V—FISHERY MONITORING AND RESEARCH ####

1881.Registration and information management.
1881a.Information collection.
1881b.Observers.
1881c.Fisheries research.
1881d.Incidental harvest research.
1882.Fisheries systems research.
1883.Gulf of Mexico red snapper research.
1884.Deep sea coral research and technology program.
1885.Seafood import monitoring program.
1885a.Report on Seafood Import Monitoring Program.
#### SUBCHAPTER VI—MISCELLANEOUS ####

1891.Investment in United States seafood processing facilities.
1891a.Community-based restoration program for fishery and coastal habitats.
1891b.Fisheries Conservation and Management Fund.
1891c.United States catch history.
1891d.Secretarial representative for international fisheries.

### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERALLY ###

