
### §9413. Local administration ###

§9413. Local administration

#### (a) Local Council ####

#### (1) In general ####

To be eligible to receive funds under this chapter, a local government entity, Indian tribe, Regional Corporation, or Native Hawaiian entity, as appropriate, shall establish or designate a Local Council, which shall be composed of—

(A) representatives of local agencies directly affected by early learning programs assisted under this chapter;

(B) parents;

(C) other individuals concerned with early learning issues in the locality, such as representative entities providing elementary education, child care resource and referral services, early learning opportunities, child care, and health services; and

(D) other key community leaders.

#### (2) Designating existing entity ####

If a local government entity, Indian tribe, Regional Corporation, or Native Hawaiian entity has, before December 21, 2000, a Local Council or a regional entity that is comparable to the Local Council described in paragraph (1), the entity, tribe, or corporation may designate the council or entity as a Local Council under this chapter, and shall be considered to have established a Local Council in compliance with this subsection.

#### (3) Functions ####

The Local Council shall be responsible for preparing and submitting the application described in section 9412 of this title.

#### (b) Administration ####

#### (1) Administrative costs ####

Not more than 3 percent of the funds received by a Local Council under this chapter shall be used to pay for the administrative costs of the Local Council in carrying out this chapter.

#### (2) Fiscal agent ####

A Local Council may designate any entity, with a demonstrated capacity for administering grants, that is affected by, or concerned with, early learning issues, including the State, to serve as fiscal agent for the administration of grant funds received by the Local Council under this chapter.

(Pub. L. 106–554, §1(a)(1) [title VIII, §814], Dec. 21, 2000, 114 Stat. 2763, 2763A–88.)

### **CHAPTER 76—EDUCATION RESEARCH, STATISTICS, EVALUATION, INFORMATION, AND DISSEMINATION** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—EDUCATION SCIENCES REFORM ####

Sec.
9501.Definitions.

#### Part A—The Institute of Education Sciences ####

9511.Establishment.
9512.Functions.
9513.Delegation.
9514.Office of the Director.
9515.Priorities.
9516.National Board for Education Sciences.
9517.Commissioners of the National Education Centers.
9518.Agreements.
9519.Biennial report.
9520.Competitive awards.
#### Part B—National Center for Education Research ####

9531.Establishment.
9532.Commissioner for Education Research.
9533.Duties.
9534.Standards for conduct and evaluation of research.
#### Part C—National Center for Education Statistics ####

9541.Establishment.
9542.Commissioner for Education Statistics.
9543.Duties.
9544.Performance of duties.
9545.Reports.
9546.Dissemination.
9547.Cooperative education statistics systems.
9548.State defined.
#### Part D—National Center for Education Evaluation and Regional Assistance ####

9561.Establishment.
9562.Commissioner for Education Evaluation and Regional Assistance.
9563.Evaluations.
9564.Regional educational laboratories for research, development, dissemination, and technical assistance.
#### Part E—National Center for Special Education Research ####

9567.Establishment.
9567a.Commissioner for Special Education Research.
9567b.Duties.
#### Part F—General Provisions ####

9571.Interagency data sources and formats.
9572.Prohibitions.
9573.Confidentiality.
9574.Availability of data.
9575.Performance management.
9576.Authority to publish.
9577.Vacancies.
9578.Scientific or technical employees.
9579.Fellowships.
9580.Voluntary service.
9581.Rulemaking.
9582.Copyright.
9583.Removal.
9584.Authorization of appropriations.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—EDUCATIONAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE ####

9601.Definitions.
9602.Comprehensive centers.
9603.Evaluations.
9604.Existing technical assistance providers.
9605.Regional advisory committees.
9606.Priorities.
9607.Grant program for statewide, longitudinal data systems.
9608.Authorization of appropriations.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—NATIONAL ASSESSMENT OF EDUCATIONAL PROGRESS ####

9621.National Assessment Governing Board.
9622.National Assessment of Educational Progress.
9623.Definitions.
9624.Authorization of appropriations.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—NATIONAL CENTER FOR RESEARCH IN ADVANCED INFORMATION AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGIES ####

9631.National Center for Research in Advanced Information and Digital Technologies.

### SUBCHAPTER I—EDUCATION SCIENCES REFORM ###

