
### §1715. Notifications to appropriate Federal and State officials ###

§1715. Notifications to appropriate Federal and State officials

(a) Definitions.—

(1) Appropriate federal official.—In this section, the term "appropriate Federal official" means—

(A) the Attorney General of the United States; or

(B) in any case in which the defendant is a Federal depository institution, a State depository institution, a depository institution holding company, a foreign bank, or a nondepository institution subsidiary of the foregoing (as such terms are defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813)), the person who has the primary Federal regulatory or supervisory responsibility with respect to the defendant, if some or all of the matters alleged in the class action are subject to regulation or supervision by that person.

(2) Appropriate state official.—In this section, the term "appropriate State official" means the person in the State who has the primary regulatory or supervisory responsibility with respect to the defendant, or who licenses or otherwise authorizes the defendant to conduct business in the State, if some or all of the matters alleged in the class action are subject to regulation by that person. If there is no primary regulator, supervisor, or licensing authority, or the matters alleged in the class action are not subject to regulation or supervision by that person, then the appropriate State official shall be the State attorney general.

(b) In General.—Not later than 10 days after a proposed settlement of a class action is filed in court, each defendant that is participating in the proposed settlement shall serve upon the appropriate State official of each State in which a class member resides and the appropriate Federal official, a notice of the proposed settlement consisting of—

(1) a copy of the complaint and any materials filed with the complaint and any amended complaints (except such materials shall not be required to be served if such materials are made electronically available through the Internet and such service includes notice of how to electronically access such material);

(2) notice of any scheduled judicial hearing in the class action;

(3) any proposed or final notification to class members of—

(A)(i) the members' rights to request exclusion from the class action; or

(ii) if no right to request exclusion exists, a statement that no such right exists; and

(B) a proposed settlement of a class action;

(4) any proposed or final class action settlement;

(5) any settlement or other agreement contemporaneously made between class counsel and counsel for the defendants;

(6) any final judgment or notice of dismissal;

(7)(A) if feasible, the names of class members who reside in each State and the estimated proportionate share of the claims of such members to the entire settlement to that State's appropriate State official; or

(B) if the provision of information under subparagraph (A) is not feasible, a reasonable estimate of the number of class members residing in each State and the estimated proportionate share of the claims of such members to the entire settlement; and

(8) any written judicial opinion relating to the materials described under subparagraphs (3) through (6).

(c) Depository Institutions Notification.—

(1) Federal and other depository institutions.—In any case in which the defendant is a Federal depository institution, a depository institution holding company, a foreign bank, or a non-depository institution subsidiary of the foregoing, the notice requirements of this section are satisfied by serving the notice required under subsection (b) upon the person who has the primary Federal regulatory or supervisory responsibility with respect to the defendant, if some or all of the matters alleged in the class action are subject to regulation or supervision by that person.

(2) State depository institutions.—In any case in which the defendant is a State depository institution (as that term is defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813)), the notice requirements of this section are satisfied by serving the notice required under subsection (b) upon the State bank supervisor (as that term is defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813)) of the State in which the defendant is incorporated or chartered, if some or all of the matters alleged in the class action are subject to regulation or supervision by that person, and upon the appropriate Federal official.

(d) Final Approval.—An order giving final approval of a proposed settlement may not be issued earlier than 90 days after the later of the dates on which the appropriate Federal official and the appropriate State official are served with the notice required under subsection (b).

(e) Noncompliance if Notice Not Provided.—

(1) In general.—A class member may refuse to comply with and may choose not to be bound by a settlement agreement or consent decree in a class action if the class member demonstrates that the notice required under subsection (b) has not been provided.

(2) Limitation.—A class member may not refuse to comply with or to be bound by a settlement agreement or consent decree under paragraph (1) if the notice required under subsection (b) was directed to the appropriate Federal official and to either the State attorney general or the person that has primary regulatory, supervisory, or licensing authority over the defendant.

(3) Application of rights.—The rights created by this subsection shall apply only to class members or any person acting on a class member's behalf, and shall not be construed to limit any other rights affecting a class member's participation in the settlement.

(f) Rule of Construction.—Nothing in this section shall be construed to expand the authority of, or impose any obligations, duties, or responsibilities upon, Federal or State officials.

(Added Pub. L. 109–2, §3(a), Feb. 18, 2005, 119 Stat. 7.)

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date ####

Section applicable to any civil action commenced on or after Feb. 18, 2005, see section 9 of Pub. L. 109–2, set out as an Effective Date of 2005 Amendment note under section 1332 of this title.

### **CHAPTER 115—EVIDENCE; DOCUMENTARY** ###

Sec.
1731.Handwriting.
1732.Record made in regular course of business; photographic copies.
1733.Government records and papers; copies.
1734.Court record lost or destroyed generally.[1](#CHAPTER115_1_target)
1735.Court record lost or destroyed where United States interested.
1736.Congressional Journals.
1737.Copy of officer's bond.
1738.State and Territorial statutes and judicial proceedings; full faith and credit.
1738A.Full faith and credit given to child custody determinations.
1738B.Full faith and credit for child support orders.
1738C.Certain acts, records, and proceedings and the effect thereof.
1739.State and Territorial nonjudicial records; full faith and credit.
1740.Copies of consular papers.
1741.Foreign official documents.
[1742.Repealed.]
1743.Demand on postmaster.
1744.Copies of United States Patent and Trademark Office documents generally.[1](#CHAPTER115_1_target)
1745.Copies of foreign patent documents.
1746.Unsworn declarations under penalty of perjury.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**1999**—Pub. L. 106–113, div. B, §1000(a)(9) [title IV, §4732(b)(15)(A)], Nov. 29, 1999, 113 Stat. 1536, 1501A–584, which directed the amendment of item 1744 by substituting "United States Patent and Trademark Office" for "Patent Office", was executed by making the substitution for "patent office" to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

**1996**—Pub. L. 104–199, §2(b), Sept. 21, 1996, 110 Stat. 2419, added item 1738C.

**1994**—Pub. L. 103–383, §3(b), Oct. 20, 1994, 108 Stat. 4066, added item 1738B.

**1980**—Pub. L. 96–611, §8(b), Dec. 28, 1980, 94 Stat. 3571, added item 1738A.

**1976**—Pub. L. 94–550, §1(b), Oct. 18, 1976, 90 Stat. 2534, added item 1746.

**1964**—Pub. L. 88–619, §§5(b), 6(b), 7(b), Oct. 3, 1964, 78 Stat. 996, substituted "official documents" for "documents generally; copies" in item 1741, inserted "[Repealed]" in item 1742, and substituted "documents" for "specifications and drawings" in item 1745.

**1951**—Act Aug. 28, 1951, ch. 351, §2, 65 Stat. 206, inserted "; photographic copies" in item 1732.

**1949**—Act May 24, 1949, ch. 139, §92(a), 63 Stat. 103, struck out item 1745 "Printed copies of patient specifications and drawings" and renumbered item 1746 as 1745.

[1 So in original. Does not conform to section catchline.](#CHAPTER115_1)

