
### §4642. Reporting of fraudulent loans ###

§4642. Reporting of fraudulent loans

#### (a) Requirement to report ####

The Director shall require a regulated entity to submit to the Director a timely report upon discovery by the regulated entity that it has purchased or sold a fraudulent loan or financial instrument, or suspects a possible fraud relating to the purchase or sale of any loan or financial instrument. The Director shall require each regulated entity to establish and maintain procedures designed to discover any such transactions.

#### (b) Protection from liability for reports ####

Any regulated entity that, in good faith, makes a report pursuant to subsection (a), and any entity-affiliated party, that, in good faith, makes or requires another to make any such report, shall not be liable to any person under any provision of law or regulation, any constitution, law, or regulation of any State or political subdivision of any State, or under any contract or other legally enforceable agreement (including any arbitration agreement) for such report or for any failure to provide notice of such report to the person who is the subject of such report or any other persons identified in the report.

(Pub. L. 102–550, title XIII, §1379E, as added Pub. L. 110–289, div. A, title I, §1115, July 30, 2008, 122 Stat. 2681.)

### **CHAPTER 47—COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BANKING** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BANKING AND FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ####

Sec.
4701.Findings and purposes.
4702.Definitions.
4703.Establishment of national Fund for community development banking.
4703a.Capital investments for neighborhoods disproportionately impacted by the COVID–19 pandemic.
4704.Applications for assistance.
4705.Community partnerships.
4706.Selection of institutions.
4707.Assistance provided by Fund.
4708.Training.
4709.Encouragement of private entities.
4710.Collection and compilation of information.
4711.Investment of receipts and proceeds.
4712.Capitalization assistance to enhance liquidity.
4713.Incentives for depository institution participation.
4713a.Guarantees for bonds and notes issued for community or economic development purposes.
4714.Recordkeeping.
4715.Special provisions with respect to institutions that are supervised by Federal banking agencies.
4716.Studies and reports; examination and audit.
4717.Enforcement.
4718.Authorization of appropriations.
4719.Grants to establish loan-loss reserve funds.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—SMALL BUSINESS CAPITAL ENHANCEMENT ####

4741.Findings and purposes.
4742.Definitions.
4743.Approving States for participation.
4744.Participation agreements.
4745.Terms of participation agreements.
4746.Reports.
4747.Reimbursement by Fund.
4748.Reimbursement to Fund.
4749.Regulations.
4750.Authorization of appropriations.

### SUBCHAPTER I—COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BANKING AND FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ###

