
### §10210. Reporting requirement ###

§10210. Reporting requirement

Not later than 3 years after the date of the enactment of this chapter, the Secretary shall prepare and transmit to Congress a report on the operation of this chapter. The report shall include—

(1) an assessment of the effectiveness of this chapter with respect to efforts of the Secretary to recruit and retain well-qualified personnel; and

(2) recommendations for any legislation or administrative action which the Secretary considers appropriate.

(Added Pub. L. 111–282, §2(a), Oct. 15, 2010, 124 Stat. 3038.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

The date of the enactment of this chapter, referred to in text, is the date of enactment of Pub. L. 111–282, which was approved Oct. 15, 2010.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date ####

Section effective on first day of first pay period which begins after Oct. 15, 2010, see section 5 of Pub. L. 111–282, set out as an Effective Date of 2010 Amendment note under section 5102 of this title.

### **CHAPTER 103—DEPARTMENT OF STATE** ###

Sec.
10301.Notice of employment opportunities for Department of State and USAID positions.
10302.Consulting services for the Department of State.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2021**—Pub. L. 117–81, div. E, title LIII, §5314(b), Dec. 27, 2021, 135 Stat. 2366, which directed the addition of item 10302 to this analysis, as added by section "10312(b)" of Pub. L. 117–81, was not executed to reflect the probable intent of Congress, as identical item 10302 already appeared in this analysis, as added by section 5312(b) of Pub. L. 117–81.

