
### §13574. Air quality enhancement program ###

§13574. Air quality enhancement program

#### (a) Eligible projects ####

Projects supported under section 13572(a)(2) of this title shall—

(1) utilize technologies that meet relevant Federal and State clean air requirements applicable to the unit or facility, including being adequately demonstrated for purposes of section 7411 of this title, achievable for purposes of section 7479 of this title, or achievable in practice for purposes of section 7501 of this title; or

(2) utilize equipment or processes that exceed relevant Federal or State clean air requirements applicable to the unit or facilities included in the projects by achieving greater efficiency or environmental performance.

#### (b) Priority in project selection ####

In making an award under section 13572(a)(2) of this title, the Secretary shall give priority to—

(1) projects whose installation is likely to result in significant air quality improvements in nonattainment air quality areas or substantially reduce the emission level of criteria pollutants and mercury air emissions;

(2) projects for pollution control that result in the mitigation or collection of more than 1 pollutant; and

(3) projects designed to allow the use of the waste byproducts or other byproducts of the equipment.

#### (c) Authorization of appropriations ####

There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out section 13572(a)(2) of this title—

(1) $300,000,000 for fiscal year 2007;

(2) $100,000,000 for fiscal year 2008;

(3) $40,000,000 for fiscal year 2009;

(4) $30,000,000 for fiscal year 2010; and

(5) $30,000,000 for fiscal year 2011.

#### (d) Applicability ####

No technology, or level of emission reduction under subsection (a)(2) shall be treated as adequately demonstrated for purpose of Section [1](#13574_1_target) 7411 of this title, achievable for purposes of section 7479 of this title, or achievable in practice for purposes of section 7501 of this title solely by reason of the use of such technology, or the achievement of such emission reduction, by one or more facilities receiving assistance under section 13572(a)(2) of this title.

(Pub. L. 102–486, title XXXI, §3104, as added Pub. L. 109–58, title IV, §421(a), Aug. 8, 2005, 119 Stat. 759.)

[1 So in original. Probably should be "purposes of section".](#13574_1)

### **CHAPTER 135—RESIDENCY AND SERVICE REQUIREMENTS IN FEDERALLY ASSISTED HOUSING** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—STANDARDS AND OBLIGATIONS OF RESIDENCY IN FEDERALLY ASSISTED HOUSING ####

Sec.
13601.Compliance by owners as condition of Federal assistance.
13602.Compliance with criteria for occupancy as requirement for tenancy.
13603.Establishment of criteria for occupancy.
13604.Assisted applications.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE PREFERENCES FOR ELDERLY RESIDENTS AND UNITS FOR DISABLED RESIDENTS IN CERTAIN SECTION 8 ASSISTED HOUSING ####

13611.Authority.
13612.Reservation of units for disabled families.
13613.Secondary preferences.
13614.General availability of units.
13615.Preference within groups.
13616.Prohibition of evictions.
13617.Treatment of covered section 8 housing not subject to elderly preference.
13618.Treatment of other federally assisted housing.
13619."Covered section 8 housing" defined.
13620.Study.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—SERVICE COORDINATORS FOR ELDERLY AND DISABLED RESIDENTS OF FEDERALLY ASSISTED HOUSING ####

13631.Requirement to provide service coordinators.
13632.Grants for costs of providing service coordinators in certain federally assisted housing.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—GENERAL PROVISIONS ####

13641.Definitions.
13642.Applicability.
13643.Regulations.
#### SUBCHAPTER V—SAFETY AND SECURITY IN PUBLIC AND ASSISTED HOUSING ####

13661.Screening of applicants for federally assisted housing.
13662.Termination of tenancy and assistance for illegal drug users and alcohol abusers in federally assisted housing.
13663.Ineligibility of dangerous sex offenders for admission to public housing.
13664.Definitions.

### SUBCHAPTER I—STANDARDS AND OBLIGATIONS OF RESIDENCY IN FEDERALLY ASSISTED HOUSING ###

