
### §6506. Reports ###

§6506. Reports

(a) Definition.—In this section, the term "executive agency" shall not include the Government Accountability Office.

(b) Reports by the Office of Personnel Management.—

(1) Submission of reports.—Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this chapter and on an annual basis thereafter, the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, in consultation with Chief [1](#6506_1_target) Human Capital Officers Council, shall—

(A) submit a report addressing the telework programs of each executive agency to—

(i) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and

(ii) the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the House of Representatives; and

(B) transmit a copy of the report to the Comptroller General and the Office of Management and Budget.

(2) Contents.—Each report submitted under this subsection shall include—

(A) the degree of participation by employees of each executive agency in teleworking during the period covered by the report (and for each executive agency whose head is referred to under section 5312, the degree of participation in each bureau, division, or other major administrative unit of that agency), including—

(i) the total number of employees in the agency;

(ii) the number and percent of employees in the agency who are eligible to telework; and

(iii) the number and percent of eligible employees in the agency who are teleworking—

(I) 3 or more days per pay period;

(II) 1 or 2 days per pay period;

(III) once per month; and

(IV) on an occasional, episodic, or short-term basis;

(B) the method for gathering telework data in each agency;

(C) if the total number of employees teleworking is 10 percent higher or lower than the previous year in any agency, the reasons for the positive or negative variation;

(D) the agency goal for increasing participation to the extent practicable or necessary for the next reporting period, as indicated by the percent of eligible employees teleworking in each frequency category described under subparagraph (A)(iii);

(E) an explanation of whether or not the agency met the goals for the last reporting period and, if not, what actions are being taken to identify and eliminate barriers to maximizing telework opportunities for the next reporting period;

(F) an assessment of the progress each agency has made in meeting agency participation rate goals during the reporting period, and other agency goals relating to telework, such as the impact of telework on—

(i) emergency readiness;

(ii) energy use;

(iii) recruitment and retention;

(iv) performance;

(v) productivity; and

(vi) employee attitudes and opinions regarding telework; and

(G) the best practices in agency telework programs.

(c) Comptroller General Reports.—

(1) Report on government accountability office telework program.—

(A) In general.—Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this chapter and on an annual basis thereafter, the Comptroller General shall submit a report addressing the telework program of the Government Accountability Office to—

(i) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and

(ii) the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the House of Representatives.

(B) Contents.—Each report submitted by the Comptroller General shall include the same information as required under subsection (b) applicable to the Government Accountability Office.

(2) Report to congress on office of personnel management report.—Not later than 6 months after the submission of the first report to Congress required under subsection (b), the Comptroller General shall review that report required under subsection (b) and submit a report to Congress on the progress each executive agency has made towards the goals established under section 6504(b)(2).

(d) Chief Human Capital Officer Reports.—

(1) In general.—Each year the Chief Human Capital Officer of each executive agency, in consultation with the Telework Managing Officer of that agency, shall submit a report to the Chair and Vice Chair of the Chief Human Capital Officers Council on agency management efforts to promote telework.

(2) Review and inclusion of relevant information.—The Chair and Vice Chair of the Chief Human Capital Officers Council shall—

(A) review the reports submitted under paragraph (1);

(B) include relevant information from the submitted reports in the annual report to Congress required under subsection (b); and

(C) use that relevant information for other purposes related to the strategic management of human capital.

(Added Pub. L. 111–292, §2(a), Dec. 9, 2010, 124 Stat. 3169.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

The date of enactment of this chapter, referred to in subsecs. (b)(1) and (c)(1)(A), is the date of enactment of Pub. L. 111–292, which was approved Dec. 9, 2010.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Change of Name ####

Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Oversight and Reform of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Sixteenth Congress, Jan. 9, 2019. Committee on Oversight and Reform of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Oversight and Accountability of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Eighteenth Congress, Jan. 9, 2023.

[1 So in original. Probably should be preceded by "the".](#6506_1)

## Subpart F—Labor-Management and Employee Relations ##

### **CHAPTER 71—LABOR-MANAGEMENT RELATIONS** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ####

Sec.
7101.Findings and purpose.
7102.Employees' rights.
7103.Definitions; application.
7104.Federal Labor Relations Authority.
7105.Powers and duties of the Authority.
7106.Management rights.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF AGENCIES AND LABOR ORGANIZATIONS ####

7111.Exclusive recognition of labor organizations.
7112.Determination of appropriate units for labor organization representation.
7113.National consultation rights.
7114.Representation rights and duties.
7115.Allotments to representatives.
7116.Unfair labor practices.
7117.Duty to bargain in good faith; compelling need; duty to consult.
7118.Prevention of unfair labor practices.
7119.Negotiation impasses; Federal Service Impasses Panel.
7120.Standards of conduct for labor organizations.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—GRIEVANCES, APPEALS, AND REVIEW ####

7121.Grievance procedures.
7122.Exceptions to arbitral awards.
7123.Judicial review; enforcement.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—ADMINISTRATIVE AND OTHER PROVISIONS ####

7131.Official time.
7132.Subpenas.
7133.Compilation and publication of data.
7134.Regulations.
7135.Continuation of existing laws, recognitions, agreements, and procedures.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**1978**—Pub. L. 95–454, title VII, §§701, 703(a)(2), Oct. 13, 1978, 92 Stat. 1191, 1217, in heading for Subpart F inserted "Labor-Management and" before "Employee", in heading for chapter 71 substituted "LABOR-MANAGEMENT RELATIONS" for "POLICIES", in heading for subchapter I substituted "GENERAL PROVISIONS" for "EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATIONS", in item 7101 substituted "Findings and purpose" for "Right to organize; postal employees", in item 7102 substituted "Employees' rights" for "Right to petition Congress; employees", added items 7103 to 7106, and added subchapter II and items 7111 to 7120, subchapter III and items 7121 to 7123, and subchapter IV and items 7131 to 7135. Former subchapter II heading "ANTIDISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT" and items 7151 to 7154, "Policy", "Marital status", "Physical handicap", and "Other prohibitions", respectively, were transferred to subchapter I of chapter 72 and renumbered and amended.

### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ###

