
### §305505. Annual report ###

§305505. Annual report

The Committee shall submit an annual report to the Secretary and the Administrator of General Services concerning its activities under this chapter and shall provide the Secretary and the Administrator of General Services with such other information as the Secretary may consider necessary or advisable.

(Pub. L. 113–287, §3, Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3224.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 305505 | 16 U.S.C. 470w–5(e). | Pub. L. 89–665, title III, §306(e), as added Pub. L. 96–515, title V, §501, Dec. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 3003. |

### Subdivision 5—Federal Agency Historic Preservation Responsibilities ###

### **CHAPTER 3061—PROGRAM RESPONSIBILITIES AND AUTHORITIES** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—IN GENERAL ####

Sec.
306101.Assumption of responsibility for preservation of historic property.
306102.Preservation program.
306103.Recordation of historic property prior to alteration or demolition.
306104.Agency Preservation Officer.
306105.Agency programs and projects.
306106.Review of plans of transferees of surplus federally owned historic property.
306107.Planning and actions to minimize harm to National Historic Landmarks.
306108.Effect of undertaking on historic property.
306109.Costs of preservation as eligible project costs.
306110.Annual preservation awards program.
306111.Environmental impact statement.
306112.Waiver of provisions in event of natural disaster or imminent threat to national security.
306113.Anticipatory demolition.
306114.Documentation of decisions respecting undertakings.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—LEASE, EXCHANGE, OR MANAGEMENT OF HISTORIC PROPERTY ####

306121.Lease or exchange.
306122.Contracts for management of historic property.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—PROTECTION AND PRESERVATION OF RESOURCES ####

306131.Standards and guidelines.

### SUBCHAPTER I—IN GENERAL ###

