
### §1804. Reinstatement of joint operating arrangements previously adjudged unlawful under antitrust laws ###

§1804. Reinstatement of joint operating arrangements previously adjudged unlawful under antitrust laws

(a) Notwithstanding any final judgment rendered in any action brought by the United States under which a joint operating arrangement has been held to be unlawful under any antitrust law, any party to such final judgment may reinstitute said joint newspaper operating arrangement to the extent permissible under section 1803(a) of this title.

(b) The provisions of section 1803 of this title shall apply to the determination of any civil or criminal action pending in any district court of the United State [1](#1804_1_target) on July 24, 1970, in which it is alleged that any such joint operating agreement is unlawful under any antitrust law.

(Pub. L. 91–353, §5, July 24, 1970, 84 Stat. 467.)

[1 So in original. Probably should be "States".](#1804_1)

### **CHAPTER 44—PROTECTION OF HORSES** ###

Sec.
1821.Definitions.
1822.Congressional statement of findings.
1823.Horse shows and exhibitions.
1824.Unlawful acts.
1824a.Export of horses.
1825.Violations and penalties.
1826.Notice of violations to Attorney General.
1827.Utilization of personnel of Department of Agriculture and officers and employees of consenting States; technical and other nonfinancial assistance to State.
1828.Rules and regulations.
1829.Preemption of State laws; concurrent jurisdiction; prohibition on certain State action.
1830.Omitted.
1831.Authorization of appropriations.

