
### §2205. Construction ###

§2205. Construction

Nothing in this chapter shall apply to—

(1) the abandonment or failure to take possession of spoils of war by troops in the field for valid military reasons related to the conduct of the immediate conflict, including the burden of transporting such property or a decision to allow allied forces to take immediate possession of certain property solely for use during an ongoing conflict;

(2) the abandonment or return of any property obtained, borrowed, or requisitioned for temporary use during military operations without intent to retain possession of such property;

(3) the destruction of spoils of war by troops in the field;

(4) the return of spoils of war to previous owners from whom such property had been seized by enemy forces; or

(5) minor articles of personal property which have lawfully become the property of individual members of the armed forces as war trophies pursuant to public written authorization from the Department of Defense.

(Pub. L. 103–236, title V, §556, Apr. 30, 1994, 108 Stat. 483.)

### **CHAPTER 40—DEFENSE AGAINST WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION** ###

Sec.
2301.Findings.
2302.Definitions.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—DOMESTIC PREPAREDNESS ####

2311.Response to threats of terrorist use of weapons of mass destruction.
2312.Repealed.
2313.Nuclear, chemical, and biological emergency response.
2314.Chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, and high-yield explosives response team.
2315.Testing of preparedness for emergencies involving nuclear, radiological, chemical, and biological weapons.
2316.Actions to increase civilian expertise.
2317.Rapid response information system.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—INTERDICTION OF WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION AND RELATED MATERIALS ####

2331.Procurement of detection equipment for United States border security.
2332.Sense of Congress concerning criminal penalties.
2333.International border security.
2334.Training program.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—CONTROL AND DISPOSITION OF WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION AND RELATED MATERIALS THREATENING THE UNITED STATES ####

2341.Elimination of plutonium production.
2342.Cooperative program on research, development, and demonstration of technology regarding nuclear or radiological terrorism.
2343.Matters relating to the international materials protection, control, and accounting program of the Department of Energy.
2344.Strengthened international security for nuclear materials and security of nuclear operations.
2345.Export control programs.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—COORDINATION OF POLICY AND COUNTERMEASURES AGAINST PROLIFERATION OF WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION ####

2351.National coordinator on nonproliferation.
2352.National Security Council Committee on Nonproliferation.
2353.Comprehensive preparedness program.
2354.Termination.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV–A—NONPROLIFERATION ASSISTANCE COORDINATION ####

2357.Findings.
2357a.Definitions.
2357b.Establishment of Committee on Nonproliferation Assistance.
2357c.Purposes and authority.
2357d.Administrative support.
2357e.Confidentiality of information.
2357f.Statutory construction.
2357g.Reporting and consultation.
#### SUBCHAPTER V—MISCELLANEOUS ####

2361.Sense of Congress concerning contracting policy.
2362.Transfers of allocations among cooperative threat reduction programs.
2363.Sense of Congress concerning assistance to states of former Soviet Union.
2364.Purchase of low-enriched uranium derived from Russian highly enriched uranium.
2365.Sense of Congress concerning purchase, packaging, and transportation of fissile materials at risk of theft.
2366.Repealed.
2367.Reports on acquisition of technology relating to weapons of mass destruction and the threat posed by weapons of mass destruction, ballistic missiles, and cruise missiles.
2368.Annual reports on the proliferation of missiles and essential components of nuclear, biological, chemical, and radiological weapons.
2369.Repealed.
2370.Notification of Committees on Armed Services with respect to certain nonproliferation and proliferation activities.
2371.Repealed.

