
### §4931. Daniel Webster Senate Page Residence Revolving Fund ###

§4931. Daniel Webster Senate Page Residence Revolving Fund

#### (a) Establishment ####

There is established in the Treasury of the United States a revolving fund within the contingent fund of the Senate to be known as the Daniel Webster Senate Page Residence Revolving Fund (hereafter referred to in this section as the "fund"). The fund shall consist of all rental payments and other moneys collected or received by the Sergeant at Arms with regard to the Daniel Webster Senate Page Residence. All moneys in the fund shall be available without fiscal year limitation for disbursement by the Secretary of the Senate in connection with operation and maintenance of the Daniel Webster Senate Page Residence not normally performed by the Architect of the Capitol. In addition, such moneys may be used by the Sergeant at Arms to purchase food and food related items and fund activities for the pages.

#### (b) Deposit of moneys ####

All moneys received from rental payments and other moneys (including donated moneys) collected or received by the Sergeant at Arms with regard to the Daniel Webster Senate Page Residence shall be deposited in the fund and shall be available for purposes of this section.

#### (c) Vouchers ####

Disbursements from the fund shall be made upon vouchers approved by the Sergeant at Arms, or the designee of the Sergeant at Arms.

#### (d) Regulations ####

The Sergeant at Arms is authorized to prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this section and to provide for the operations of the Daniel Webster Senate Page Residence.

(Pub. L. 103–283, title I, §4, July 22, 1994, 108 Stat. 1427; Pub. L. 104–53, title I, §6, Nov. 19, 1995, 109 Stat. 518.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

Section was formerly classified to section 88b–7 of this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is from the Congressional Operations Appropriations Act, 1995, which is title I of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1995.

#### Amendments ####

**1995**—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 104–53 inserted "(including donated moneys)" after "other moneys".

### **CHAPTER 51—HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES LEADERSHIP** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL ####

Sec.
5101.Employment of administrative assistants for Speaker and House Majority and Minority Leaders; compensation; appropriations.
5102.Appointment of consultants by Speaker, Majority Leader, and Minority Leader of House; compensation.
5103.Single per annum gross rates of allowances for personal services in offices of Speaker, Leaders, and Whips.
5104.Authority of Speaker and Minority Leader to allocate funds among certain House leadership offices.
5105.Transfer of appropriations by House Leadership Offices.
5106.Allowance for compensation of interns in House leadership offices.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—THE SPEAKER ####

5121.Expense allowance of Speaker of House of Representatives.
5122.Personal services in office of Speaker; payments.
5123.Speaker's Office for Legislative Floor Activities.
5124.Lump sum allowance for Speaker.
5125 to 5129. Repealed.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—MAJORITY AND MINORITY LEADERS AND WHIPS ####

5141.Additional employees in offices of House Minority Leader, Majority Whip, and Chief Deputy Majority Whip; authorization; compensation.
5142.Additional amounts for personnel and equipment for House Majority and Minority Leaders and Majority and Minority Whips.
5143.Compensation of certain House minority employees.
5144.Lump-sum allowances for House Minority Leader and Majority Whip.
5145.Lump-sum allowances for House Majority Floor Leader, Minority Floor Leader, Majority Whip, and Minority Whip.
5146.Lump-sum allowances for House Majority Whip and Minority Whip.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—POLICY COMMITTEES AND CONFERENCES ####

5161.Training and program development activities of Republican Conference and Democratic Steering and Policy Committee.
5162.Republican Policy Committee.

### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL ###

