
### §9306. Rule of construction ###

§9306. Rule of construction

Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to alter or amend any State law or action with regard to sustainable chemistry, as defined by the State.

(Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title II, §266, Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 3502.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original "this subtitle", meaning subtitle E (§§261–267) of title II of Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 3497, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of subtitle E to the Code, see Tables.

### **CHAPTER 119—NATIONAL ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE INITIATIVE** ###

Sec.
9401.Definitions.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—NATIONAL ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE INITIATIVE ####

9411.National Artificial Intelligence Initiative.
9412.National Artificial Intelligence Initiative Office.
9413.Coordination by Interagency Committee.
9414.National Artificial Intelligence Advisory Committee.
9415.National AI Research Resource Task Force.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—NATIONAL ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE RESEARCH INSTITUTES ####

9431.National Artificial Intelligence Research Institutes.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES ####

9441.Stakeholder outreach.
9442.National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Artificial Intelligence Center.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES ####

9451.Artificial intelligence research and education.
#### SUBCHAPTER V—DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE RESEARCH PROGRAM ####

9461.Department of Energy artificial intelligence research program.
9462.Veterans' health initiative.

