
### §40508. Report to Congress ###

§40508. Report to Congress

#### (a) In general ####

Not later than 1 year after December 27, 2022, and biennially thereafter, the Attorney General shall submit to the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives and the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate a report describing the status of the NCIC database and NamUs databases.

#### (b) Contents ####

The report required by subsection (a) shall describe, to the extent available, information on the process of information sharing between the NCIC database and NamUs databases.

(Pub. L. 117–327, §5, Dec. 27, 2022, 136 Stat. 4457.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

Section was enacted as part of Billy's Law, also known as the Help Find the Missing Act, and not as part of Jennifer's Law which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Definitions ####

For definitions of "NCIC database" and "NamUs databases" as used in this section, see section 6 of Pub. L. 117–327, set out as a note under section 40506 of this title.

### **CHAPTER 407—DNA IDENTIFICATION** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS OF SAMPLES ####

Sec.
40701.The Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Grant Program.
40702.Collection and use of DNA identification information from certain Federal offenders.
40703.Collection and use of DNA identification information from certain District of Columbia offenders.
40704.Conditions of release generally.
40705.Authorization of appropriations.
40706.Privacy protection standards.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—TRAINING, TECHNOLOGY, RESEARCH, AND EXPANDED USE ####

40721.Report to Congress on plans to modify CODIS system.
40722.DNA training and education for law enforcement, correctional personnel, and court officers.
40723.Sexual assault forensic exam program grants.
40724.DNA research and development.
40725.National Forensic Science Commission.
40726.DNA identification of missing persons.
40727.Kirk Bloodsworth Post-Conviction DNA Testing Grant Program.
40728.Establishment of best practices for evidence retention.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—DNA ARRESTEE COLLECTION PROCESSES ####

40741.Definitions.
40742.Grants to States to implement DNA arrestee collection processes.
40743.Expungement of profiles.
40744.Offset of funds appropriated.

### SUBCHAPTER I—COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS OF SAMPLES ###

