
### §9011. Authorization of appropriations ###

§9011. Authorization of appropriations

There are authorized to be appropriated for each fiscal year such sums as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of the Convention and this chapter.

(Pub. L. 100–300, §12, Apr. 29, 1988, 102 Stat. 442.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original "this Act" meaning Pub. L. 100–300, Apr. 29, 1988, 102 Stat. 437, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note under section 9001 of this title and Tables.

#### Codification ####

Section was formerly classified to section 11610 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare.

### **CHAPTER 98—INTERNATIONAL CHILD ABDUCTION PREVENTION AND RETURN** ###

Sec.
9101.Definitions.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—DEPARTMENT OF STATE ACTIONS ####

9111.Annual Report.
9112.Standards and assistance.
9113.Bilateral procedures, including memoranda of understanding.
9114.Report to congressional representatives.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—ACTIONS BY THE SECRETARY OF STATE ####

9121.Response to international child abductions.
9122.Actions by the Secretary of State in response to patterns of noncompliance in cases of international child abductions.
9123.Consultations with foreign governments.
9124.Waiver by the Secretary of State.
9125.Termination of actions by the Secretary of State.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—PREVENTION OF INTERNATIONAL CHILD ABDUCTION ####

9141.Authorization for judicial training on international parental child abduction.

