
### §3233. Expedited Congressional review ###

§3233. Expedited Congressional review

#### (a) Rulemaking ####

This subsection is enacted by Congress—

(1) as an exercise of the rulemaking power of each House of Congress, respectively, and as such it is deemed a part of the rules of each House, respectively, but applicable only with respect to the procedure to be followed in the House in the case of resolutions described by subsection (b) of this section and it supersedes other rules only to the extent that it is inconsistent therewith; and

(2) with full recognition of the constitutional right of either House to change the rules (so far as those relate to the procedure of that House) at any time, in the same manner and to the same extent as in the case of any other rule of such House.

#### (b) Resolution ####

For purposes of this section, the term "resolution" means a joint resolution, the resolving clause of which is as follows: "That the House of Representatives and Senate approve the recommendation of the President for              in              submitted to the Congress on              19    .", the first blank space therein to be filled in with appropriate activity, the second blank space therein to be filled in with the name or description of the area of land affected by the activity, and the third blank space therein to be filled with the date on which the President submits his recommendation to the House of Representatives and the Senate. Such resolution may also include material relating to the application and effect of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 [42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.] to the recommendation.

#### (c) Referral ####

A resolution once introduced with respect to such Presidential recommendation shall be referred to one or more committees (and all resolutions with respect to the same Presidential recommendation shall be referred to the same committee or committees) by the President of the Senate or the Speaker of the House of Representatives, as the case may be.

#### (d) Other procedures ####

Except as otherwise provided in this section the provisions of section 719f(d) of title 15 shall apply to the consideration of the resolution.

(Pub. L. 96–487, title XV, §1503, Dec. 2, 1980, 94 Stat. 2550.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

The National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, referred to in subsec. (b), is Pub. L. 91–190, Jan. 1, 1970, 83 Stat. 852, which is classified generally to chapter 55 (§4321 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 4321 of Title 42 and Tables.

### **CHAPTER 52—SALMON AND STEELHEAD CONSERVATION AND ENHANCEMENT** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ####

Sec.
3301.Congressional findings and declaration of purpose.
3302.Definitions.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—COORDINATED MANAGEMENT OF SALMON AND STEELHEAD ####

3311.Salmon and Steelhead Advisory Commission.
3312.Eligibility for financial assistance under approved enhancement plans.
3313.Grants for reports and plans for coordinated research, enforcement, etc.
3314.Discontinuance of funding.
3315.Authorization of appropriations.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—RESOURCE ENHANCEMENT ####

3321.Grants for projects under approved enhancement plans.
3322.Enhancement project proposals.
3323.Approval and funding of projects.
3324.Monitoring and evaluation of enhancement projects.
3325.Authorization of appropriations.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—COMMERCIAL FISHING FLEET ADJUSTMENT ####

3331.Fleet adjustment program.
3332.State program for reduction of overall fishing capacity.
3333.Program approval.
3334.Review of State program by Secretary.
3335.Authorization of appropriations.
3336.Special provision.
#### SUBCHAPTER V—MISCELLANEOUS ####

3341.Regulations.
3342.Annual status reports on programs; monitoring.
3343.Construction with fishery conservation and management provisions.
3344.Construction with other laws.
3345.Authorization of additional appropriations.

### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ###

