
### §1600*l*. Authorization of appropriations ###

§1600*l*. Authorization of appropriations

There is authorized to be appropriated to the Department of the Interior $600,000, through the end of fiscal year 1990, in addition to any other funds now available to the Department to discharge its duties to implement sections 1600b to 1600k of this title and section 4029 of title 42: *Provided*, That by mutual agreement, such funds shall be made available to the Federal Emergency Management Agency to discharge its duties under section 4029 of title 42: *Provided further*, That the provisions of sections 1600d and 1600e of this title shall not be affected by this section: *And Provided further*, in addition, Indian tribes may be eligible under Public Law 93–638 [25 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.] to contract for studies of Indian lands required under the provisions of this chapter.

(Pub. L. 99–450, §15, Oct. 8, 1986, 100 Stat. 1136.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

Public Law 93–638, referred to in text, is Pub. L. 93–638, Jan. 4, 1975, 88 Stat. 2203, known as the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, which is classified principally to chapter 46 (§5301 et seq.) of Title 25, Indians. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 5301 of Title 25 and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Transfer of Functions ####

For transfer of all functions, personnel, assets, components, authorities, grant programs, and liabilities of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, including the functions of the Under Secretary for Federal Emergency Management relating thereto, to the Federal Emergency Management Agency, see section 315(a)(1) of Title 6, Domestic Security.

For transfer of functions, personnel, assets, and liabilities of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, including the functions of the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency relating thereto, to the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see former section 313(1) and sections 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under section 542 of Title 6.

### **CHAPTER 33—ALASKA NATIVE CLAIMS SETTLEMENT** ###

Sec.
1601.Congressional findings and declaration of policy.
1602.Definitions.
1603.Declaration of settlement.
1604.Enrollment.
1605.Alaska Native Fund.
1606.Regional Corporations.
1607.Village Corporations.
1608.Revenue sharing.
1609.Limitation of actions.
1610.Withdrawal of public lands.
1611.Native land selections.
1612.Surveys.
1613.Conveyance of lands.
1613a.ANCSA amendment.
1614.Timber sale contracts; modification; timber from contingency area.
1615.Withdrawal and selection of public lands; funds in lieu of acreage.
1616.Joint Federal-State Land Use Planning Commission for Alaska.
1617.Revocation of Indian allotment authority in Alaska.
1618.Revocation of reserved rights; excepted reserve; acquisition of title to surface and subsurface estates in reserve; election of Village Corporations; restoration of land to Elim Native Corporation.
1619.Attorney and consultant fees.
1620.Taxation.
1621.Miscellaneous provisions.
1622.Annual reports to Congress until 1984; submission in 1985 of report of status of Natives, summary of actions taken, and recommendations.
1623.Authorization of appropriations.
1624.Regulations; issuance; publication in Federal Register.
1625.Securities laws exemption.
1626.Relation to other programs.
1627.Merger of Native corporations.
1628.Assignments by Regional Corporations of rights to receive payments from Fund.
1629.Cape Krusenstern National Monument land exchange between United States and NANA Regional Corporation, Inc.
1629a.Relinquishment by NANA Regional Corporation, Inc., of lands compact and contiguous to public lands in Cape Krusenstern National Monument.
1629b.Procedures for considering amendments and resolutions.
1629c.Duration of alienability restrictions.
1629d.Dissenters rights.
1629e.Settlement Trust option.
1629f.Claims arising from contamination of transferred lands.
1629g.Open season for certain Alaska Native veterans for allotments.
1629g–1.Alaska Native Vietnam era veterans land allotment.
1629h.Kake Tribal Corporation land transfer.

