
### §149. Definitions ###

§149. Definitions

When used in this subchapter—

(a) The term "person" means an individual, partnership, association, or corporation.

(b) The term "United States" means the fifty States and the District of Columbia.

(Feb. 15, 1927, ch. 155, §9, 44 Stat. 1103; Pub. L. 86–70, §19, June 25, 1959, 73 Stat. 145; Pub. L. 86–624, §15, July 12, 1960, 74 Stat. 415.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**1960**—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 86–624 substituted "means the fifty States and the District of Columbia" for "means continental United States, including Alaska".

**1959**—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 86–70 inserted ", including Alaska" after "continental United States".

### **CHAPTER 5—VIRUSES, SERUMS, TOXINS, ANTITOXINS, AND ANALOGOUS PRODUCTS** ###

Sec.
151.Preparation and sale of worthless or harmful products for domestic animals prohibited; preparation to be in compliance with rules at licensed establishments.
152.Importation regulated and prohibited.
153.Inspection of imports; denial of entry and destruction.
154.Regulations for preparation and sale; licenses.
154a.Special licenses for special circumstances; expedited procedure; conditions; exemptions; criteria.
155.Permits for importation.
156.Licenses conditioned on permitting inspection; suspension of licenses.
157.Inspection.
158.Offenses; punishment.
159.Enforcement; penalties applicable; Congressional findings.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act ####

Nothing contained in chapter 9 (§301 et seq.) of this title shall be construed as in any way affecting, modifying, repealing, or superseding the provisions of this chapter, see section 392(b) of this title.

