
### §3122. Longitudinal study of vocational rehabilitation programs ###

§3122. Longitudinal study of vocational rehabilitation programs

(a) Study Required.—(1) Subject to the availability of appropriated funds, the Secretary shall conduct a longitudinal study of a statistically valid sample of each of the groups of individuals described in paragraph (2). The Secretary shall study each such group over a period of at least 20 years.

(2) The groups of individuals described in this paragraph are the following:

(A) Individuals who begin participating in a vocational rehabilitation program under this chapter during fiscal year 2010.

(B) Individuals who begin participating in such a program during fiscal year 2012.

(C) Individuals who begin participating in such a program during fiscal year 2014.

(b) Annual Reports.—By not later than July 1 of each year covered by the study required under subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives a report on the study during the preceding year.

(c) Contents of Report.—The Secretary shall include in the report required under subsection (b) any data the Secretary determines is necessary to determine the long-term outcomes of the individuals participating in the vocational rehabilitation programs under this chapter. The Secretary may add data elements from time to time as necessary. In addition, each such report shall contain the following information:

(1) The number of individuals participating in vocational rehabilitation programs under this chapter who suspended participation in such a program during the year covered by the report.

(2) The average number of months such individuals served on active duty.

(3) The distribution of disability ratings of such individuals.

(4) The types of other benefits administered by the Secretary received by such individuals.

(5) The types of social security benefits received by such individuals.

(6) Any unemployment benefits received by such individuals.

(7) The average number of months such individuals were employed during the year covered by the report.

(8) The average annual starting and ending salaries of such individuals who were employed during the year covered by the report.

(9) The number of such individuals enrolled in an institution of higher learning, as that term is defined in section 3452(f) of this title.

(10) The average number of academic credit hours, degrees, and certificates obtained by such individuals during the year covered by the report.

(11) The average number of visits such individuals made to Department medical facilities during the year covered by the report.

(12) The average number of visits such individuals made to non-Department medical facilities during the year covered by the report.

(13) The average annual income of such individuals.

(14) The average total household income of such individuals for the year covered by the report.

(15) The percentage of such individuals who own their principal residences.

(16) The average number of dependents of each such veteran.

(Added Pub. L. 110–389, title III, §334(a), Oct. 10, 2008, 122 Stat. 4172.)

### **CHAPTER 32—POST-VIETNAM ERA VETERANS' EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—PURPOSE; DEFINITIONS ####

Sec.
3201.Purpose.
3202.Definitions.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—ELIGIBILITY; CONTRIBUTIONS; AND MATCHING FUND ####

3221.Eligibility.
3222.Contributions; matching fund.
3223.Refunds of contributions upon disenrollment.
3224.Death of participant.
3225.Discharge or release under conditions which would bar the use of benefits.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—ENTITLEMENT; DURATION ####

3231.Entitlement; loan eligibility.
3232.Duration; limitations.
3233.Apprenticeship or other on-job training.
3234.Tutorial assistance.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—ADMINISTRATION ####

3241.Requirements.
3243.Deposits; reports.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**1991**—Pub. L. 102–83, §5(b)(1), Aug. 6, 1991, 105 Stat. 406, renumbered items 1601 to 1643 as 3201 to 3243, respectively.

Pub. L. 102–16, §5(b), Mar. 22, 1991, 105 Stat. 50, struck out item 1642 "Reporting requirements".

**1988**—Pub. L. 100–689, title I, §107(b)(2), Nov. 18, 1988, 102 Stat. 4169, added item 1634.

**1986**—Pub. L. 99–576, title III, §310(b)(3), Oct. 28, 1986, 100 Stat. 3272, added item 1633.

**1982**—Pub. L. 97–295, §4(36), Oct. 12, 1982, 96 Stat. 1307, inserted "the" after "bar" in item 1625.

### SUBCHAPTER I—PURPOSE; DEFINITIONS ###

