
### §1056. Separability ###

§1056. Separability

If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of the chapter and of the application of such provision to other persons and circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

(Pub. L. 91–597, §28, Dec. 29, 1970, 84 Stat. 1635.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original "this Act", meaning Pub. L. 91–597, Dec. 29, 1970, 84 Stat. 1620, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1031 of this title and Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date ####

For effective date of this section, see section 29 of Pub. L. 91–597, set out as a note under section 1031 of this title.

### **CHAPTER 16—DRUG ABUSE PREVENTION, TREATMENT, AND REHABILITATION** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ####

Sec.
1101.Congressional findings.
1102.Congressional declaration of national policy.
1103, 1104. Repealed.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—DRUG ABUSE POLICY COORDINATION ####

1111 to 1114. Repealed.
1115.Notice relating to the control of dangerous drugs.
1116 to 1155. Repealed or Omitted.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—NATIONAL DRUG ABUSE STRATEGY ####

1161 to 1165. Repealed.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—OTHER FEDERAL PROGRAMS ####

1171.Drug abuse prevention function appropriations.
1172 to 1176. Repealed, Transferred, or Omitted.
1177.Special project grants and contracts.
1178.Records and audit.
1179.National Drug Abuse Training Center.
1180.Transferred.
1181.Contract authority.
#### SUBCHAPTER V—NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON DRUG ABUSE ####

1191 to 1194. Transferred or Repealed.

### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ###

