
### §6524. Organically produced food ###

§6524. Organically produced food

In the case of a food certified under the national organic program established under the Organic Foods Production Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6501 et seq.), the certification shall be considered sufficient to make a claim regarding the absence of bioengineering in the food, such as "not bioengineered", "non-GMO", or another similar claim.

(Pub. L. 114–216, §2, July 29, 2016, 130 Stat. 838.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

The Organic Foods Production Act of 1990, referred to in text, is title XXI of Pub. L. 101–624, Nov. 28, 1990, 104 Stat. 3935, which is classified generally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 6501 of this title and Tables.

#### Codification ####

Section was enacted as part of Pub. L. 114–216, and not as part of the Organic Foods Production Act of 1990 which comprises this chapter.

### **CHAPTER 95—RURAL REVITALIZATION THROUGH FORESTRY** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—FORESTRY RURAL REVITALIZATION ####

Sec.
6601.Forestry rural revitalization.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—NATIONAL FOREST-DEPENDENT RURAL COMMUNITIES ####

6611.Findings and purposes.
6612.Definitions.
6613.Rural natural resources and economic diversification action teams.
6614.Action plan implementation.
6615.Training and education.
6616.Loans to economically disadvantaged rural communities.
6617.Authorization of appropriations and spending authority.

### SUBCHAPTER I—FORESTRY RURAL REVITALIZATION ###

