
### §13304. Service of process in court proceedings ###

§13304. Service of process in court proceedings

(a) Designation of Agent.—A motor carrier or broker providing transportation subject to jurisdiction under chapter 135, including a motor carrier or broker operating within the United States while providing transportation between places in a foreign country or between a place in one foreign country and a place in another foreign country, shall designate an agent in each State in which it operates by name and post office address on whom process issued by a court with subject matter jurisdiction may be served in an action brought against that carrier or broker. The designation shall be in writing and filed with the Department of Transportation and each State in which the carrier operates may require that an additional designation be filed with it. If a designation under this subsection is not made, service may be made on any agent of the carrier or broker within that State.

(b) Change.—A designation under this section may be changed at any time in the same manner as originally made.

(Added Pub. L. 104–88, title I, §103, Dec. 29, 1995, 109 Stat. 858.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Prior Provisions ####

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in section 10330 of this title prior to the general amendment of this subtitle by Pub. L. 104–88, §102(a).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date ####

Section effective Jan. 1, 1996, except as otherwise provided in Pub. L. 104–88, see section 2 of Pub. L. 104–88, set out as a note under section 1301 of this title.

### **CHAPTER 135—JURISDICTION** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—MOTOR CARRIER TRANSPORTATION ####

Sec.
13501.General jurisdiction.
13502.Exempt transportation between Alaska and other States.
13503.Exempt motor vehicle transportation in terminal areas.
13504.Exempt motor carrier transportation entirely in one State.
13505.Transportation furthering a primary business.
13506.Miscellaneous motor carrier transportation exemptions.
13507.Mixed loads of regulated and unregulated property.
13508.Limited authority over cooperative associations.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—WATER CARRIER TRANSPORTATION ####

13521.General jurisdiction.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—FREIGHT FORWARDER SERVICE ####

13531.General jurisdiction.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—AUTHORITY TO EXEMPT ####

13541.Authority to exempt transportation or services.

### SUBCHAPTER I—MOTOR CARRIER TRANSPORTATION ###

