
### §825. Rules of construction ###

§825. Rules of construction

#### (a) Administrator ####

Nothing in this part shall be construed to supersede the civilian emergency management authority of the Administrator under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) or the Post Katrina Emergency Management Reform Act [1](#825_1_target) (6 U.S.C. 701 et seq.).

#### (b) Secretary ####

Nothing in this part shall be construed as providing new authority to the Secretary, except to coordinate and facilitate the development of the assessments and reports required pursuant to this part.

(Pub. L. 117–263, div. G, title LXXIII, §7309, Dec. 23, 2022, 136 Stat. 3689.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

The Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is Pub. L. 93–288, May 22, 1974, 88 Stat. 143, which is classified principally to chapter 68 (§5121 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 5121 of Title 42 and Tables.

The Post Katrina Emergency Management Reform Act, referred to in subsec. (a), probably means the Post-Katrina Emergency Management Reform Act of 2006, which is title VI of Pub. L. 109–295, Oct. 4, 2006, 120 Stat. 1394, which enacted this chapter and enacted and amended numerous other sections and notes in the Code. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 701 of this title and Tables.

[1 See References in Text note below.](#825_1)

### **CHAPTER 3—SECURITY AND ACCOUNTABILITY FOR EVERY PORT** ###

Sec.
901.Definitions.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—SECURITY OF UNITED STATES SEAPORTS ####

#### Part A—Port Security Grants; Training and Exercise Programs ####

911.Repealed.
912.Port Security Exercise Program.
913.Facility exercise requirements.
#### Part B—Port Operations ####

921.Domestic radiation detection and imaging.
921a.Integration of detection equipment and technologies.
922.Repealed.
923.Random searches of containers.
924.Threat assessment screening of port truck drivers.
925.Border Patrol unit for United States Virgin Islands.
926.Center of Excellence for Maritime Domain Awareness.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—SECURITY OF THE INTERNATIONAL SUPPLY CHAIN ####

#### Part A—General Provisions ####

941.Strategic plan to enhance the security of the international supply chain.
942.Post-incident resumption of trade.
943.Automated Targeting System.
944.Container security standards and procedures.
945.Container Security Initiative.
#### Part B—Customs–Trade Partnership Against Terrorism ####

961.Establishment.
962.Eligible entities.
963.Minimum requirements.
964.Tier 1 participants in C–TPAT.
965.Tier 2 participants in C–TPAT.
966.Tier 3 participants in C–TPAT.
967.Consequences for lack of compliance.
968.Third party validations.
969.Revalidation.
970.Noncontainerized cargo.
971.C–TPAT program management.
972.Additional personnel.
973.Authorization of appropriations.
#### Part C—Miscellaneous Provisions ####

981.Pilot integrated scanning system.
981a.Pilot integrated scanning system.
982.Screening and scanning of cargo containers.
983.Inspection technology and training.
984.Repealed.
985.Information sharing relating to supply chain security cooperation.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—ADMINISTRATION ####

1001.Designation of liaison office of Department of State.
1002.Homeland Security Science and Technology Advisory Committee.
1003.Research, development, test, and evaluation efforts in furtherance of maritime and cargo security.

