
### §633. Potential liability on foreign accounts ###

§633. Potential liability on foreign accounts

#### (a) Exceptions from repayment requirement ####

A member bank shall not be required to repay any deposit made at a foreign branch of the bank if the branch cannot repay the deposit due to—

(1) an act of war, insurrection, or civil strife; or

(2) an action by a foreign government or instrumentality (whether de jure or de facto) in the country in which the branch is located;

unless the member bank has expressly agreed in writing to repay the deposit under those circumstances.

#### (b) Regulations ####

The Board and the Comptroller of the Currency may jointly prescribe such regulations as they deem necessary to implement this section.

(Dec. 23, 1913, ch. 6, §25C, as added Pub. L. 103–325, title III, §326(a), Sept. 23, 1994, 108 Stat. 2229.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

Section was enacted as section 25C of the Federal Reserve Act, and not as part of section 25A of that Act which comprises this subchapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Existing Claims Not Affected ####

Pub. L. 103–325, title III, §326(c), Sept. 23, 1994, 108 Stat. 2229, provided that: "Section 25C of the Federal Reserve Act [this section] (as added by subsection (a)) shall not be applied retroactively and shall not be construed to affect or apply to any claim or cause of action addressed by that section arising from events or circumstances that occurred before the date of enactment of this Act [Sept. 23, 1994]."

### **CHAPTER 6A—EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF THE UNITED STATES** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ####

Sec.
635.Powers and functions of Bank.
635a.Management of Bank.
635a–1.Export credit competition.
635a–2.Implementation of regulations and procedures to lessen adverse effect of loans and guarantees on industries in United States; report by United States International Trade Commission; written consideration of views of adversely affected parties.
635a–3.Export-Import Bank financing to match foreign financing.
635a–4.Guarantees for export accounts receivable and inventory.
635a–5.Negotiations to end export credit financing.
635a–6.Periodic audits of bank transactions.
635a–7.Independent audit of bank portfolio.
635b.Capitalization of Bank; method of capital stock payments; public-debt transactions; issuance of stock certificates.
635c.Repealed.
635d.Issuance of debentures, bonds, etc.; obligations redeemable; payment of interest; obligations purchasable by Secretary of the Treasury; public-debt transactions.
635e.Aggregate loan, guarantee, and insurance authority.
635f.Termination date of Bank's functions; exceptions; liquidation.
635g.Report to Congress; time for submission; contents.
635g–1.Annual competitiveness report.
635h.Exemption from prohibition of section 955 of title 18.
635i to 635i–2. Repealed.
635i–3.Tied Aid Credit Fund and program.
635i–4.Repealed.
635i–5.Environmental policy and procedures.
635i–6.Debt reduction; Enterprise for the Americas Initiative.
635i–7.Cooperation on export financing programs.
635i–8.Special debt relief for poorest, most heavily indebted countries.
635i–9.Market windows.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—EXPORT FINANCING ####

635j.Export financing program to foster foreign trade and commercial interest of the United States.
635k.Apportionment of losses incurred on loans, guarantees, and insurance; reimbursement; contingent obligations.
635*l.*Authorization for appropriation of funds for losses.
635m.Loans, guarantees, and insurance subject to the provisions of this chapter.
635n.Prohibition of loans, guarantees, and insurance as to sales of defense articles or services.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—TIED AID CREDIT EXPORT SUBSIDIES ####

635*o.*Congressional statement of purpose.
635p.Presidential mandate to negotiate; objectives.
635q.Establishment of tied aid credit program in United States Export-Import Bank.
635r.Establishment of tied aid credit program administered by Trade and Development Agency.
635s.Implementation.
635t.Definitions.

### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ###

