
### §9594. Department of the Air Force Military History Institute: fee for providing historical information to the public ###

§9594. Department of the Air Force Military History Institute: fee for providing historical information to the public

(a) Authority.—Except as provided in subsection (b), the Secretary of the Air Force may charge a person a fee for providing the person with information from the United States Department of the Air Force Military History Institute that is requested by that person.

(b) Exceptions.—A fee may not be charged under this section—

(1) to a person for information that the person requests to carry out a duty as a member of the armed forces or an officer or employee of the United States; or

(2) for a release of information under section 552 of title 5.

(c) Limitation on Amount.—A fee charged for providing information under this section may not exceed the cost of providing the information.

(d) Retention of Fees.—Amounts received under subsection (a) for providing information in any fiscal year shall be credited to the appropriation or appropriations charged the costs of providing information to the public from the United States Department of the Air Force Military History Institute during that fiscal year.

(e) Definitions.—In this section:

(1) The term "United States Department of the Air Force Military History Institute" means the archive for historical records and materials of the Air Force and the Space Force that the Secretary of the Air Force designates as the primary archive for such records and materials.

(2) The terms "officer of the United States" and "employee of the United States" have the meanings given the terms "officer" and "employee", respectively, in sections 2104 and 2105, respectively, of title 5.

(Added Pub. L. 106–398, §1 [[div. A], title X, §1085(c)(1)], Oct. 30, 2000, 114 Stat. 1654, 1654A–289; amended Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title IX, §923(e)(8)(A), (B), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 3816.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2021**—Pub. L. 116–283, §923(e)(8)(B), amended section catchline generally. Prior to amendment, catchline read as follows: "Air Force Military History Institute: fee for providing historical information to the public".

Subsecs. (a), (d). Pub. L. 116–283, §923(e)(8)(A)(i), inserted "Department of the" before "Air Force Military History".

Subsec. (e)(1). Pub. L. 116–283, §923(e)(8)(A)(ii), inserted "Department of the" before "Air Force Military History" and "and the Space Force" after "materials of the Air Force".

### **CHAPTER 969—SALE OF SERVICEABLE MATERIAL** ###

Sec.
9621.Subsistence and other supplies: members of armed forces; veterans; executive or military departments and employees; prices.
9622.Rations: commissioned officers in field.
[9623.Repealed.]
9624.Medical supplies: civilian employees of the Air Force; American National Red Cross; Armed Forces Retirement Home.
9625.Ordnance property: officers of the armed forces; civilian employees of the Department of the Air Force; American National Red Cross; educational institutions; homes for veterans' orphans.
9626.Aircraft supplies and services: foreign military or other state aircraft.
9627.Supplies: educational institutions.
9628.Airplane parts and accessories: civilian flying schools.
9629.Proceeds: disposition.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2021**—Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title IX, §923(e)(12)(C), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 3818, added item 9625 and struck out former item 9625 "Ordnance property: officers of armed forces; civilian employees of Air Force; American National Red Cross; educational institutions; homes for veterans' orphans".

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §806(d)(1), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1833, redesignated chapter 939 of this title as this chapter.

**2008**—Pub. L. 110–181, div. A, title X, §1031(a)(2), Jan. 28, 2008, 122 Stat. 306, added item 9626 and struck out former item 9626 "Aircraft supplies and services: foreign military or air attaché".

**1998**—Pub. L. 105–261, div. A, title III, §366(b), Oct. 17, 1998, 112 Stat. 1987, struck out item 9623 "Tobacco: enlisted members of Air Force".

**1990**—Pub. L. 101–510, div. A, title XV, §1533(a)(8)(C), Nov. 5, 1990, 104 Stat. 1735, amended item 9624 generally, substituting "Armed Forces Retirement Home" for "Soldiers' and Airmen's Home".

**1980**—Pub. L. 96–513, title V, §514(17)(C), Dec. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 2936, substituted "Soldiers' and Airmen's Home" for "Soldiers' Home" in item 9624.

