
### §3392. Rule of construction regarding the use of military force ###

§3392. Rule of construction regarding the use of military force

Nothing in this chapter may be construed as authorizing the use of military force or the introduction of United States forces into hostilities.

(Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LV, §5540, Dec. 23, 2022, 136 Stat. 3334.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original "this title", and was translated as reading "this subtitle", meaning subtitle A (§§5501–5540) of Pub. L. 117–263, div. E, title LV, Dec. 23, 2022, 136 Stat. 3292, known as the Taiwan Enhanced Resilience Act, which is classified principally to this chapter, to reflect the probable intent of Congress. For complete classification of subtitle A to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 3351 of this title and Tables.

### **CHAPTER 49—SUPPORT OF PEACE TREATY BETWEEN EGYPT AND ISRAEL** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—POLITICAL, ECONOMIC, AND TECHNOLOGICAL SUPPORT ####

Sec.
3401.Congressional findings and declaration of policy.
3402.Supplemental authorization of foreign military sales loan guaranties for Egypt and Israel.
3403.Supplemental authorization of economic support for Egypt.
3404.Transfer of facilities of United States Sinai Field Mission to Egypt.
3405.Contributions by other countries to support peace in the Middle East.
3406.Trilateral scientific and technological cooperation by Egypt, Israel, and United States.
3407.Repealed.
3408.Non-proliferation of nuclear weapons.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—MULTINATIONAL FORCE AND OBSERVERS PARTICIPATION ####

3421.Congressional declaration of policy.
3422.Participation of United States personnel in the Multinational Force and Observers.
3423.United States contributions to costs.
3424.Nonreimbursed costs.
3425.Reports to Congress.
3426.Statements of Congressional intent.
3427.Definitions.

### SUBCHAPTER I—POLITICAL, ECONOMIC, AND TECHNOLOGICAL SUPPORT ###

