
### §130113. Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation ###

§130113. Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation

On dissolution or final liquidation of the corporation, any assets remaining after the discharge of all liabilities shall be distributed as provided by the council of administration, but in compliance with the constitution and bylaws of the corporation.

(Pub. L. 105–225, Aug. 12, 1998, 112 Stat. 1373.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 130113 | 36:78p. | June 17, 1959, Pub. L. 86–47, §17, 73 Stat. 80. |

The word "satisfaction" is omitted as included in "discharge", and the word "obligations" is omitted as included in "liabilities". The word "outstanding" is omitted as unnecessary. The words "as provided by" are substituted for "in accordance with the determination of" for consistency in the revised title and to eliminate unnecessary words. The reference to the "council of administration" is retained although there is no council of administration created by 36:78e or 36:78f. The words "all Federal and State laws applicable thereto" are omitted as unnecessary.

### **CHAPTER 1303—LEGION OF VALOR OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, INCORPORATED** ###

Sec.
130301.Organization.
130302.Principles and purposes.
130303.Membership.
130304.Governing body.
130305.Powers.
130306.Restrictions.
130307.Principal office.
130308.Records and inspection.
130309.Service of process.
130310.Liability for acts of officers and agents.
130311.Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation.

