
### §3146. Definitions ###

§3146. Definitions

For purposes of this Act—

(1) the terms "foreign", "direct investment", "international investment", "United States", "business enterprise", "foreign person", and "United States person" have the meanings given those terms in section 3102 of this title; and

(2) the term "foreign direct investment in the United States" means direct investment by foreign persons in any business enterprise that is a United States person.

(Pub. L. 101–533, §10, Nov. 7, 1990, 104 Stat. 2351.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

This Act, referred to in text, is Pub. L. 101–533, Nov. 7, 1990, 104 Stat. 2344, known as the Foreign Direct Investment and International Financial Data Improvements Act of 1990, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 3141 of this title and Tables.

### **CHAPTER 47—NUCLEAR NON-PROLIFERATION** ###

Sec.
3201.Congressional declaration of policy.
3202.Congressional statement of purpose.
3203.Definitions.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—UNITED STATES INITIATIVES TO PROVIDE ADEQUATE NUCLEAR FUEL SUPPLY ####

3221.Congressional declaration of policy.
3222.Uranium enrichment capacity.
3223.International undertakings.
3224.Reevaluation of nuclear fuel cycle.
3224a.Studies and agreements by Secretary of Energy on multinational or international basis concerning spent fuel storage facilities and transportation systems; congressional consent; authorization of appropriations; limitations on use of funds; exceptions; special nuclear material for India.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—UNITED STATES INITIATIVES TO STRENGTHEN THE INTERNATIONAL SAFEGUARDS SYSTEM ####

3241.Congressional declaration of policy.
3242.Training program.
3243.Negotiations.
3244.Actions to combat international nuclear terrorism.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—UNITED STATES ASSISTANCE TO DEVELOPING COUNTRIES ####

3261.Congressional declaration of policy; Presidential report to Congress.
3262.Programs.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—EXECUTIVE REPORTING ####

3281.Annual Presidential report to Congress on governmental efforts to prevent proliferation.
3282.Reports by departments and agencies.

