
### §20217. Action on reports of selection boards for promotion to brigadier general or major general ###

§20217. Action on reports of selection boards for promotion to brigadier general or major general

(a) In General.—After reviewing a report received under section 20215 of this title recommending officers on the Space Force officer list for promotion to the grade of brigadier general or major general, but before submitting the report to the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of the Air Force may, under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Air Force, adjust the placement of officers as recommended in the report in order to ensure that sufficient number of officers on both sustained and non-sustained duty are promoted to meet the requirements of the Space Force to fill general officer vacancies.

(b) Report.—Whenever the Secretary of the Air Force uses the authority under subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report informing the committees that the authority has been used and the reason for the use of the authority.

(Added Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVII, §1716(c), Dec. 22, 2023, 137 Stat. 638.)

### SUBCHAPTER III—PROMOTIONS ###

Sec.
20231.Eligibility for consideration for promotion: general rules.
20232.Authority to allow officers to opt out of selection board consideration.
20233.Eligibility for consideration for promotion: designation as joint qualified officer required before promotion to brigadier general; exceptions.
20234.Opportunities for consideration for promotion.
20235.Space Force officer list.
20236.Competitive categories.
20237.Numbers to be recommended for promotion.
20238.Establishment of promotion zones.
20239.Promotions: how made.
20240.Acceptance of promotions; oath of office.
20241.Removal of officers from a list of officers recommended for promotion.
20242.Authority to vacate promotions to grade of brigadier general.
20243.General officers ceasing to occupy positions commensurate with grade.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVII, §1716(c), Dec. 22, 2023, 137 Stat. 634, 638, which directed amendment of chapter "205" of this title by adding this subchapter at the end, was executed by adding this subchapter at the end of this chapter, which is chapter 2005, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

#### Amendments ####

Pub. L. 118–31, div. A, title XVII, §1716(c), Dec. 22, 2023, 137 Stat. 634, 638, 641–645, 647–649, added items 20231 to 20243. Amendment was made pursuant to operation of section 102 of this title.

