
### §154. Unlawful intrusion, or violation of rules and regulations ###

§154. Unlawful intrusion, or violation of rules and regulations

All persons who shall unlawfully intrude upon said reserve, or who shall without permission appropriate any object therein or commit unauthorized injury or waste in any form whatever upon the lands or other public property therein, or who shall violate any of the rules and regulations prescribed hereunder, shall, upon conviction, be fined in a sum not more than $1,000, or be imprisoned for a period not more than twelve months, or shall suffer both fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the court.

(Mar. 22, 1906, ch. 1127, §4, 34 Stat. 83.)

### **CHAPTER 4—SAINT ELIZABETHS HOSPITAL** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—ESTABLISHMENT AND MANAGEMENT; PENSIONS, MONEYS, AND APPROPRIATIONS ####

Sec.
161 to 168a. Repealed or Omitted.
168b.Computation of maximum amount available from Federal sources.
169 to 170. Repealed.
170a.Maximum amount available from Federal sources.
171 to 185. Repealed.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—INMATES; BURDEN OF EXPENSES THEREOF; DETENTION OF INSANE ####

191 to 222. Repealed or Omitted.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—MENTAL HEALTH SERVICE FOR DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA ####

225.Findings and purposes.
225a.Definitions.
225b.Development of plan for mental health system for the District.
225c.Congressional review of system implementation plan.
225d.Transition provisions for employees of Hospital.
225e.Conditions of employment for former employees of Hospital.
225f.Property transfer.
225g.Financing provisions.
225h.Buy American provisions.

### SUBCHAPTER I—ESTABLISHMENT AND MANAGEMENT; PENSIONS, MONEYS, AND APPROPRIATIONS ###

