
### §7411. Report on grant and fellowship programs ###

§7411. Report on grant and fellowship programs

Within 24 months after November 27, 2002, the Director, in consultation with the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, shall submit to Congress a report reviewing this chapter to ensure that the programs and fellowships are being awarded under this chapter to individuals and institutions of higher education who are in compliance with the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.) in order to protect our national security.

(Pub. L. 107–305, §17, Nov. 27, 2002, 116 Stat. 2381.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original "this Act", meaning Pub. L. 107–305, Nov. 27, 2002, 116 Stat. 2367, known as the Cyber Security Research and Development Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 7401 of this title and Tables.

The Immigration and Nationality Act, referred to in text, is act June 27, 1952, ch. 477, 66 Stat. 163, which is classified principally to chapter 12 (§1101 et seq.) of Title 8, Aliens and Nationality. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1101 of Title 8 and Tables.

### **CHAPTER 100A—CYBERSECURITY ENHANCEMENT** ###

Sec.
7421.Definitions.
7422.No regulatory authority.
7423.No additional funds authorized.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—CYBERSECURITY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ####

7431.Federal cybersecurity research and development.
7432.National cybersecurity challenges.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—EDUCATION AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT ####

7441.Cybersecurity competitions and challenges.
7442.Federal Cyber Scholarship-for-Service Program.
7443.National cybersecurity awareness and education program.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—CYBERSECURITY AWARENESS AND PREPAREDNESS ####

7451.Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—ADVANCEMENT OF CYBERSECURITY TECHNICAL STANDARDS ####

7461.Definitions.
7462.International cybersecurity technical standards.
7463.Cloud computing strategy.
7464.Identity management research and development.

