
### §6106. Definitions ###

§6106. Definitions

For purposes of this chapter—

(1) the term "agency of the United States Government" includes any agency of the legislative branch and any court of the judicial branch as well as any agency of the executive branch;

(2) the term "agency head" means—

(A) in the case of the executive branch of Government or an agency of the legislative branch other than the House of Representatives or the Senate, the head of the respective agency;

(B) in the case of the judicial branch of Government, the chief judge of the respective court;

(C) in the case of the Senate, the President pro tempore, in consultation with the Majority Leader and Minority Leader of the Senate; and

(D) in the case of the House of Representatives, the Speaker of the House, in consultation with the Majority Leader and Minority Leader of the House;

(3) the term "Center" means the Mansfield Center for Pacific Affairs; and

(4) the term "detailee" means an employee of an agency of the United States Government on assignment or loan to the Mansfield Center for Pacific Affairs without a change of position from the agency by which he or she is employed.

(Pub. L. 103–236, title II, §257, Apr. 30, 1994, 108 Stat. 432.)

### **CHAPTER 71—UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL BROADCASTING** ###

Sec.
6201.Congressional findings and declaration of purposes.
6202.Standards and principles.
6203.Establishment of the Chief Executive Officer of the United States Agency for Global Media.
6204.Authorities of Chief Executive Officer.
6205.Establishment of the International Broadcasting Advisory Board.
6206.Grantee corporate boards of directors.
6207.Limits on grants for Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty.
6208.Radio Free Asia.
6208a.Open Technology Fund.
6209.Incorporation and non-Federal status of broadcasting entities.
6209a.Inspector General authorities.
6209b.Role of the Secretary of State in foreign policy guidance.
6210.Preservation of American jobs.
6211.Repealed.
6212.Requirement for authorization of appropriations.
6213.Definitions.
6214.Relocation costs.
6215.Establishment of Radio Free Afghanistan.
6216.Special authority for surge capacity.
6217.Global internet freedom.

