
### §5426. Authorization of appropriations ###

§5426. Authorization of appropriations

There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter.

(Pub. L. 93–383, title VI, §626, formerly §627, Aug. 22, 1974, 88 Stat. 714; renumbered §626, Pub. L. 106–569, title VI, §611(2), Dec. 27, 2000, 114 Stat. 3012.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Prior Provisions ####

A prior section 626 of Pub. L. 93–383 was classified to section 5425 of this title, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 106–569.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date ####

Section effective upon the expiration of 180 days following Aug. 22, 1974, see section 627 of Pub. L. 93–383, set out as a note under section 5401 of this title.

### **CHAPTER 71—SOLAR ENERGY** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—HEATING AND COOLING ####

Sec.
5501.Congressional findings and declaration of policy.
5502.Definitions.
5503.Development and demonstration of solar heating systems for use in residential dwellings.
5504.Development and demonstration of combined solar heating and cooling systems for use in residential dwellings.
5504a, 5505. Repealed or Omitted.
5506.Test procedures and definitive performance criteria for solar heating and combined solar heating and cooling components and systems and suitable dwellings; determination, consultation and publication in Federal Register.
5507.Arrangements with Federal agencies for development and demonstration of solar heating and combined heating and cooling systems for commercial buildings.
5508.Program of applied research by Secretary of Energy for improvement and development of heating systems for commercial application; transmission of results to Secretary and Administrator.
5509.Supervision of systems and programs by Secretary.
5510.Dissemination of information to promote practical use of solar heating and cooling technologies.
5511.Federally assisted or federally constructed housing.
5511a.Solar Assistance Financing Entity.
5512.Small business concerns' opportunities to participate in programs.
5513.Priorities and criteria of demonstration programs.
5514.Regulations.
5515.Use of publicly assisted housing by Secretary in demonstrations.
5516.Transfer of functions.
5517.Authorization of appropriations.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, AND DEMONSTRATION ####

5551 to 5556. Repealed.
5556a.Solar photovoltaic energy systems studies and acquisitions by Secretary of Energy; scope, contents, and submission dates for reports; acquisition authority and requirements; authorization of appropriations.
5557 to 5566. Repealed.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—SOLAR PHOTOVOLTAIC ENERGY RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND DEMONSTRATION ####

5581 to 5594. Repealed.

### SUBCHAPTER I—HEATING AND COOLING ###

