
### §4594. Contract authority in appropriation Acts ###

§4594. Contract authority in appropriation Acts

The authority of the Secretary to enter into contracts under this chapter shall be effective for any fiscal year only to such extent or in such amounts as are provided in advance by appropriation Acts.

(Pub. L. 91–616, title VI, §604, as added Pub. L. 96–180, §17, Jan. 2, 1980, 93 Stat. 1306.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original "this Act", meaning Pub. L. 91–616, Dec. 31, 1970, 84 Stat. 1848, known as the Comprehensive Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism Prevention, Treatment, and Rehabilitation Act of 1970. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 4541 of this title and Tables.

### **CHAPTER 61—UNIFORM RELOCATION ASSISTANCE AND REAL PROPERTY ACQUISITION POLICIES FOR FEDERAL AND FEDERALLY ASSISTED PROGRAMS** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ####

Sec.
4601.Definitions.
4602.Effect upon property acquisition.
4603.Additional appropriations for moving costs, relocation benefits and other expenses incurred in acquisition of lands for National Park System; waiver of benefits.
4604.Certification.
4605.Displaced persons not eligible for assistance.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—UNIFORM RELOCATION ASSISTANCE ####

4621.Declaration of findings and policy.
4622.Moving and related expenses.
4623.Replacement housing for homeowner; mortgage insurance.
4624.Replacement housing for tenants and certain others.
4625.Relocation planning, assistance coordination, and advisory services.
4626.Housing replacement by Federal agency as last resort.
4627.State required to furnish real property incident to Federal assistance (local cooperation).
4628.State acting as agent for Federal program.
4629.Public works programs and projects of District of Columbia government and Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority.
4630.Requirements for relocation payments and assistance of federally assisted program; assurances of availability of housing.
4631.Federal share of costs.
4632.Administration; relocation assistance in programs receiving Federal financial assistance.
4633.Duties of lead agency.
4634.Agency coordination.
4635.Planning and other preliminary expenses for additional housing.
4636.Payments not to be considered as income for revenue purposes or for eligibility for assistance under Social Security Act or other Federal law.
4637.Repealed.
4638.Transfers of surplus property.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—UNIFORM REAL PROPERTY ACQUISITION POLICY ####

4651.Uniform policy on real property acquisition practices.
4652.Buildings, structures, and improvements.
4653.Expenses incidental to transfer of title to United States.
4654.Litigation expenses.
4655.Requirements for uniform land acquisition policies; payments of expenses incidental to transfer of real property to State; payment of litigation expenses in certain cases.

### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ###

