
### §40941. Disposition records automation and transmittal improvement grants ###

§40941. Disposition records automation and transmittal improvement grants

#### (a) Grants authorized ####

From amounts made available to carry out this section, the Attorney General shall make grants to each State, consistent with State plans for the integration, automation, and accessibility of criminal history records, for use by the State court system to improve the automation and transmittal of criminal history dispositions, records relevant to determining whether a person has been convicted of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence, court orders, and mental health adjudications or commitments, to Federal and State record repositories in accordance with sections 40912 and 40913 of this title and the National Criminal History Improvement Program.

#### (b) Grants to Indian tribes ####

Up to 5 percent of the grant funding available under this section may be reserved for Indian tribal governments for use by Indian tribal judicial systems.

#### (c) Use of funds ####

Amounts granted under this section shall be used by the State court system only—

(1) to carry out, as necessary, assessments of the capabilities of the courts of the State for the automation and transmission of arrest and conviction records, court orders, and mental health adjudications or commitments to Federal and State record repositories; and

(2) to implement policies, systems, and procedures for the automation and transmission of arrest and conviction records, court orders, and mental health adjudications or commitments to Federal and State record repositories.

#### (d) Eligibility ####

To be eligible to receive a grant under this section, a State shall certify, to the satisfaction of the Attorney General, that the State has implemented a relief from disabilities program in accordance with section 40915 of this title.

#### (e) Authorization of appropriations ####

There are authorized to be appropriated to the Attorney General to carry out this section $62,500,000 for fiscal year 2009, $125,000,000 for fiscal year 2010, $125,000,000 for fiscal year 2011, $62,500,000 for fiscal year 2012, and $62,500,000 for fiscal year 2013.

(Pub. L. 110–180, title III, §301, Jan. 8, 2008, 121 Stat. 2571.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

Section was formerly classified in a note under section 922 of Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

### **CHAPTER 411—ACCESS TO CRIMINAL HISTORY AND IDENTIFICATION RECORDS** ###

Sec.
41101.Funds for exchange of identification records.
41102.Parimutuel licensing simplification.
41103.Processing of name checks and background records for noncriminal employment, licensing, and humanitarian purposes by INTERPOL.
41104.Processing of fingerprint identification records and name checks by FBI.
41105.Criminal background checks for applicants for employment in nursing facilities and home health care agencies.
41106.Reviews of criminal records of applicants for private security officer employment.
41107.Access to the national crime information databases by tribes.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Regulations ####

Pub. L. 117–159, div. A, title II, §12004(h)(3), June 25, 2022, 136 Stat. 1331, provided that: "Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act [June 25, 2022], and without regard to chapter 5 of title 5, United States Code, the Attorney General shall promulgate regulations allowing a person licensed as an importer, manufacturer, or dealer of firearms under chapter 44 of title 18, United States Code, to receive access to records of stolen firearms maintained by the National Crime Information Center operated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, solely for the purpose of voluntarily verifying whether firearms offered for sale to such licensees have been stolen."

