
### §1964. Constructive notice of pending actions ###

§1964. Constructive notice of pending actions

Where the law of a State requires a notice of an action concerning real property pending in a court of the State to be registered, recorded, docketed, or indexed in a particular manner, or in a certain office or county or parish in order to give constructive notice of the action as it relates to the real property, and such law authorizes a notice of an action concerning real property pending in a United States district court to be registered, recorded, docketed, or indexed in the same manner, or in the same place, those requirements of the State law must be complied with in order to give constructive notice of such an action pending in a United States district court as it relates to real property in such State.

(Added Pub. L. 85–689, §1(a), Aug. 20, 1958, 72 Stat. 683.)

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date ####

Pub. L. 85–689, §2, Aug. 20, 1958, 72 Stat. 683, provided that: "The amendments made by this Act [enacting this section] shall only be effective with respect to actions commenced in United States district courts more than one hundred and eighty days after the date of enactment of this Act [Aug. 20, 1958]."

### **CHAPTER 127—EXECUTIONS AND JUDICIAL SALES** ###

Sec.
2001.Sale of realty generally.
2002.Notice of sale of realty.
2003.Marshal's incapacity after levy on or sale of realty.
2004.Sale of personalty generally.
2005.Appraisal of goods taken on execution.
2006.Execution against revenue officer.
2007.Imprisonment for debt.

