
### §3138. Obligations for contract services: reporting in budget object classes ###

§3138. Obligations for contract services: reporting in budget object classes

(a) Limitation on Reporting in Miscellaneous Services Object Class.—The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that, in reporting to the Office of Management and Budget (pursuant to OMB Circular A–11 (relating to preparation and submission of budget estimates)) obligations of the Department of Defense for any period of time for contract services, no more than 15 percent of the total amount of obligations so reported is reported in the miscellaneous services object class.

(b) Definition of Reporting Categories for Advisory and Assistance Services.—In carrying out section 1105(g) of title 31 for the Department of Defense (and in determining what services are to be reported to the Office of Management and Budget in the advisory and assistance services object class), the Secretary of Defense shall apply to the terms used for the definition of "advisory and assistance services" in paragraph (2)(A) of that section the following meanings (subject to the authorized exemptions):

(1) Management and professional support services.—The term "management and professional support services" (used in clause (i) of section 1105(g)(2)(A) of title 31) means services that provide engineering or technical support, assistance, advice, or training for the efficient and effective management and operation of organizations, activities, or systems. Those services—

(A) are closely related to the basic responsibilities and mission of the using organization; and

(B) include efforts that support or contribute to improved organization or program management, logistics management, project monitoring and reporting, data collection, budgeting, accounting, auditing, and administrative or technical support for conferences and training programs.

(2) Studies, analyses, and evaluations.—The term "studies, analyses, and evaluations" (used in clause (ii) of section 1105(g)(2)(A) of title 31) means services that provide organized, analytic assessments to understand or evaluate complex issues to improve policy development, decisionmaking, management, or administration and that result in documents containing data or leading to conclusions or recommendations. Those services may include databases, models, methodologies, and related software created in support of a study, analysis, or evaluation.

(3) Engineering and technical services.—The term "engineering and technical services" (used in clause (iii) of section 1105(g)(2)(A) of title 31) means services that take the form of advice, assistance, training, or hands-on training necessary to maintain and operate fielded weapon systems, equipment, and components (including software when applicable) at design or required levels of effectiveness.

(c) Proper Classification of Advisory and Assistance Services.—Before the submission to the Office of Management and Budget of the proposed Department of Defense budget for inclusion in the President's budget for a fiscal year pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, the Secretary of Defense, acting through the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller), shall conduct a review of Department of Defense services expected to be performed as contract services during the fiscal year for which that budget is to be submitted in order to ensure that those services that are advisory and assistance services (as defined in accordance with subsection (b)) are in fact properly classified, in accordance with that subsection, in the advisory and assistance services object class.

(d) Report to Congress.—The Secretary shall submit to Congress each year, not later than 30 days after the date on which the budget for the next fiscal year is submitted pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, a report containing the information derived from the review under subsection (c).

(e) Assessment by Comptroller General.—(1) The Comptroller General shall conduct a review of the report of the Secretary of Defense under subsection (d) each year and shall—

(A) assess the methodology used by the Secretary in obtaining the information submitted to Congress in that report; and

(B) assess the information submitted to Congress in that report.

(2) Not later than 120 days after the date on which the Secretary submits to Congress the report required under subsection (d) for any year, the Comptroller General shall submit to Congress the Comptroller General's report containing the results of the review for that year under paragraph (1).

(f) Definitions.—In this section:

(1) The term "contract services" means all services that are reported to the Office of Management and Budget pursuant to OMB Circular A–11 (relating to preparation and submission of budget estimates) in budget object classes that are designated in the Object Class 25 series.

(2) The term "advisory and assistance services object class" means those contract services constituting the budget object class that is denominated "Advisory and Assistance Service" and designated (as of October 17, 1998) as Object Class 25.1 (or any similar object class established after October 17, 1998, for the reporting of obligations for advisory and assistance contract services).

(3) The term "miscellaneous services object class" means those contract services constituting the budget object class that is denominated "Other Services (services not otherwise specified in the 25 series)" and designated (as of October 17, 1998) as Object Class 25.2 (or any similar object class established after October 17, 1998, for the reporting of obligations for miscellaneous or unspecified contract services).

(4) The term "authorized exemptions" means those exemptions authorized (as of October 17, 1998) under Department of Defense Directive 4205.2, captioned "Acquiring and Managing Contracted Advisory and Assistance Services (CAAS)" and issued by the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology on February 10, 1992, such exemptions being set forth in Enclosure 3 to that directive (captioned "CAAS Exemptions").

(Added Pub. L. 105–261, div. A, title IX, §911(a)(1), Oct. 17, 1998, 112 Stat. 2097, §2212; amended Pub. L. 106–65, div. A, title X, §1066(a)(17), Oct. 5, 1999, 113 Stat. 771; renumbered §3138, Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §1809(i)(1), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4162.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2021**—Pub. L. 116–283 renumbered section 2212 of this title as this section.

**1999**—Subsec. (f)(2), (3). Pub. L. 106–65 substituted "as of October 17, 1998" for "as of the date of the enactment of this section" and "after October 17, 1998," for "after the date of the enactment of this section".

Subsec. (f)(4). Pub. L. 106–65, §1066(a)(17)(B), substituted "as of October 17, 1998" for "as of the date of the enactment of this section".

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Change of Name ####

Reference to Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology deemed to refer to Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, pursuant to section 911(a)(1) of Pub. L. 106–65, formerly set out as a note under section 133 of this title.

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment ####

Amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.

### **CHAPTER 209—OPERATIONAL CONTRACT SUPPORT** ###

SubchapterSec.
I.Joint Policies on Requirements Definition, Contingency Program Management, and Contingency Contracting3151
II.[Reserved]

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Prior Provisions ####

A prior chapter 209 "OPERATIONAL CONTRACT SUPPORT", as added by Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title VIII, §801(a), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1827, and consisting of reserved section 3151, was repealed by Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §1810(a), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4162.

#### Amendments ####

**2021**—Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title XVII, §1701(i)(2)(A), Dec. 27, 2021, 135 Stat. 2141, amended Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §1810(a), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4162, which added this analysis, by substituting "[Reserved]" for "Other Provisions Relating to Operational Contract Support" in item for subchapter II.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Responsibility Within Department of Defense for Operational Contract Support ####

Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title VIII, §843, Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 1845, provided that:

"(a) Guidance Required.—Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 2, 2013], the Secretary of Defense shall develop and issue guidance establishing the chain of authority and responsibility within the Department of Defense for policy, planning, and execution of operational contract support.

"(b) Elements.—The guidance under subsection (a) shall, at a minimum—

"(1) specify the officials, offices, and components of the Department within the chain of authority and responsibility described in subsection (a);

"(2) identify for each official, office, and component specified under paragraph (1)—

"(A) requirements for policy, planning, and execution of contract support for operational contract support, including, at a minimum, requirements in connection with—

"(i) coordination of functions, authorities, and responsibilities related to operational contract support, including coordination with relevant Federal agencies;

"(ii) assessments of total force data in support of Department force planning scenarios, including the appropriateness of and necessity for the use of contractors for identified functions;

"(iii) determinations of capability requirements for nonacquisition community operational contract support, and identification of resources required for planning, training, and execution to meet such requirements; and

"(iv) determinations of policy regarding the use of contractors by function, and identification of the training exercises that will be required for operational contract support (including an assessment [of] whether or not such exercises will include contractors); and

"(B) roles, authorities, responsibilities, and lines of supervision for the achievement of the requirements identified under subparagraph (A); and

"(3) ensure that the chain of authority and responsibility described in subsection (a) is appropriately aligned with, and appropriately integrated into, the structure of the Department for the conduct of overseas contingency operations, including the military departments, the Joint Staff, and the commanders of the unified combatant commands."

#### Competition and Review of Contracts for Property or Services in Support of a Contingency Operation ####

Pub. L. 112–81, div. A, title VIII, §844(a), (b), Dec. 31, 2011, 125 Stat. 1515, provided that:

"(a) Contracting Goals.—Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 31, 2011], the Secretary of Defense shall—

"(1) establish goals for competition in contracts awarded by the Secretary of Defense for the procurement of property or services to be used outside the United States in support of a contingency operation; and

"(2) develop processes by which to measure and monitor such competition, including in task-order categories for services, construction, and supplies.

"(b) Annual Review of Certain Contracts.—For each year the Logistics Civil Augmentation Program contract, or other similar omnibus contract awarded by the Secretary of Defense for the procurement of property or services to be used outside the United States in support of a contingency operation, is in force, the Secretary shall require a competition advocate of the Department of Defense to conduct an annual review of each such contract."

### SUBCHAPTER I—JOINT POLICIES ON REQUIREMENTS DEFINITION, CONTINGENCY PROGRAM MANAGEMENT, AND CONTINGENCY CONTRACTING ###

Sec.
3151.Joint policy requirement.
3152.Requirements definition matters covered.
3153.Contingency program management matters covered.
3154.Contingency contracting matters covered.
3155.Training for personnel outside acquisition workforce.
3156.Mission readiness exercises.
3157.Definitions; applicability.

