
### §2186. Square 580 landscape maintenance ###

§2186. Square 580 landscape maintenance

For fiscal year 2016 and each fiscal year thereafter, the Architect of the Capitol, in consultation with the District of Columbia, is authorized to maintain and improve the landscape features, excluding streets, in Square 580 up to the beginning of I–395.

(Pub. L. 114–113, div. I, title II, §206, Dec. 18, 2015, 129 Stat. 2672.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Prior Provisions ####

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in the following prior appropriation act:

Pub. L. 113–235, div. H, title II, §206, Dec. 16, 2014, 128 Stat. 2542.

### **CHAPTER 31—CAPITOL VISITOR CENTER** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—IN GENERAL ####

Sec.
2201.Designation of facility as Capitol Visitor Center; purposes of facility; treatment of the Capitol Visitor Center.
2202.Designation and naming within the Capitol Visitor Center.
2203.Use of the Emancipation Hall of the Capitol Visitor Center.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—OFFICE OF THE CAPITOL VISITOR CENTER ####

2211.Establishment.
2212.Appointment and supervision of Chief Executive Officer for Visitor Services.
2213.General duties of Chief Executive Officer.
2214.Assistant to the Chief Executive Officer.
2215.Gift Shop.
2216.Food service operations.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—CAPITOL VISITOR CENTER REVOLVING FUND ####

2231.Establishment and accounts.
2232.Deposits in the Fund.
2233.Use of monies.
2234.Administration of Fund.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—CAPITOL GUIDE SERVICE AND OFFICE OF CONGRESSIONAL ACCESSIBILITY SERVICES ####

#### Part A—Capitol Guide Service ####

2241.Transfer of Capitol Guide Service.
2242.Duties of employees of Capitol Guide Service.
#### Part B—Office of Congressional Accessibility Services ####

2251.Office of Congressional Accessibility Services.
2252.Transfer from Capitol Guide Service.
#### Part C—Transfer Date ####

2261.Transfer date.
#### SUBCHAPTER V—MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS ####

2271.Jurisdictions unaffected.
2272.Acceptance of volunteer services.
2273.Coins treated as gifts.
#### SUBCHAPTER VI—AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS ####

2281.Authorization of appropriations.

### SUBCHAPTER I—IN GENERAL ###

