
### §6617. Authorization of appropriations and spending authority ###

§6617. Authorization of appropriations and spending authority

#### (a) Authorization of appropriations ####

Except as provided in subsection (b), there are authorized to be appropriated—

(1) an amount not to exceed 5 percent of the sum of—

(A) the sums received by the Secretary from sales of timber and other products of the forests; and

(B) user fees paid in connection with the use of forest lands; and

(2) such additional sums as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this subchapter.

#### (b) Limitation on authorization ####

Subsection (a) shall not in any way affect payments to the States pursuant to section 500 of title 16.

#### (c) Spending authority ####

Any spending authority (as defined in section 651 of title 2) provided in this subchapter shall be effective for any fiscal year only to such extent or in such amounts as are provided in appropriation Acts.

(Pub. L. 101–624, title XXIII, §2379, Nov. 28, 1990, 104 Stat. 4049.)

### **CHAPTER 96—GLOBAL CLIMATE CHANGE** ###

Sec.
6701.Global Climate Change Program.
6702.Study of global climate change, agriculture, and forestry.
6703.Repealed.
6704.Office of International Forestry.
6705.Line item.
6706.Institutes of Tropical Forestry.
6707.Urban forestry demonstration projects.
6708.Repealed.
6709.Interagency cooperation to maximize biomass growth.
6710.Authorization of appropriations.
6711.Carbon cycle research.
6712.Greenhouse Gas Technical Assistance Provider and Third-Party Verifier Program.

