
### §1104. Negotiation of contract ###

§1104. Negotiation of contract

(a) In General.—The agency head shall negotiate a contract for architectural and engineering services at compensation which the agency head determines is fair and reasonable to the Federal Government. In determining fair and reasonable compensation, the agency head shall consider the scope, complexity, professional nature, and estimated value of the services to be rendered.

(b) Order of Negotiation.—The agency head shall attempt to negotiate a contract, as provided in subsection (a), with the most highly qualified firm selected under section 1103 of this title. If the agency head is unable to negotiate a satisfactory contract with the firm, the agency head shall formally terminate negotiations and then undertake negotiations with the next most qualified of the selected firms, continuing the process until an agreement is reached. If the agency head is unable to negotiate a satisfactory contract with any of the selected firms, the agency head shall select additional firms in order of their competence and qualification and continue negotiations in accordance with this section until an agreement is reached.

(Pub. L. 107–217, Aug. 21, 2002, 116 Stat. 1130.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 1104 | 40:544. | June 30, 1949, ch. 288, title IX, §904, as added Pub. L. 92–582, Oct. 27, 1972, 86 Stat. 1279. |

### **CHAPTER 13—PUBLIC PROPERTY** ###

Sec.
1301.Charge of property transferred to the Federal Government.
1302.Lease of buildings.
1303.Disposition of surplus real property.
1304.Transfer of federal property to States.
1305.Disposition of land acquired by devise.
1306.Disposition of abandoned or forfeited personal property.
1307.Disposition of securities.
1308.Disposition of unfit horses and mules.
1309.Preservation, sale, or collection of wrecked, abandoned, or derelict property.
1310.Sale of war supplies, land, and buildings.
1311.Authority of President to obtain release.
1312.Release of real estate in certain cases.
1313.Releasing property from attachment.
1314.Easements.
1315.Law enforcement authority of Secretary of Homeland Security for protection of public property.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2002**—Pub. L. 107–296, title XVII, §1706(b)(3), Nov. 25, 2002, 116 Stat. 2318, added item 1315 and struck out former item 1315 "Special police".

