
### §8023. Additional powers to obtain data ###

§8023. Additional powers to obtain data

#### (a) Securing of data ####

The Joint Committee or the Chief of Staff of the Joint Committee, upon approval of the Chairman or Vice Chairman, is authorized to secure directly from the Internal Revenue Service, or the office of the Chief Counsel for the Internal Revenue Service, or directly from any executive department, board, bureau, agency, independent establishment, or instrumentality of the Government, information, suggestions, rulings, data, estimates, and statistics, for the purpose of making investigations, reports, and studies relating to internal revenue taxation. In the investigation by the Joint Committee on Taxation of the administration of the internal revenue taxes by the Internal Revenue Service, the Chief of Staff of the Joint Committee on Taxation is authorized to secure directly from the Internal Revenue Service such tax returns, or copies of tax returns, and other relevant information, as the Chief of Staff deems necessary for such investigation, and the Internal Revenue Service is authorized and directed to furnish such tax returns and information to the Chief of Staff together with a brief report, with respect to each return, as to any action taken or proposed to be taken by the Service as a result of any audit of the return.

#### (b) Furnishing of data ####

The Internal Revenue Service, the office of the Chief Counsel for the Internal Revenue Service, executive departments, boards, bureaus, agencies, independent establishments, and instrumentalities are authorized and directed to furnish such information, suggestions, rulings, data, estimates, and statistics directly to the Joint Committee or to the Chief of Staff of the Joint Committee, upon request made pursuant to this section.

#### (c) Application of subsections (a) and (b) ####

Subsections (a) and (b) shall be applied in accordance with their provisions without regard to any reorganization plan becoming effective on, before, or after the date of the enactment of this subsection.

(Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736, 68A Stat. 928; Pub. L. 86–368, §2(b), Sept. 22, 1959, 73 Stat. 648; Pub. L. 94–455, title XII, §1210(c), title XIX, §1907(a)(4), Oct. 4, 1976, 90 Stat. 1711, 1835.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

The date of the enactment of this subsection, referred to in subsec. (c), is Aug. 16, 1954, the date of enactment of act Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736, 68A Stat. 4, which enacted this title.

#### Amendments ####

**1976**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 94–455, §1210(c), inserted provision that in investigation by Joint Committee on Taxation of the administration of the internal revenue taxes by the Internal Revenue Service, the Chief of Staff of the Joint Committee on Taxation is authorized to secure directly from the Internal Revenue Service such tax returns, or copies of tax returns, and other relevant information, as the Chief of Staff deems necessary for such investigation, and the Internal Revenue Service is authorized and directed to furnish such tax returns and information to the Chief of Staff together with a brief report, with respect to each return, as to any action taken or proposed to be taken by the Service as a result of any audit of the return.

Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 94–455, §1907(a)(4), substituted "any" for "Reorganization Plan Numbered 26 of 1950 or to any other" after "without regard to" and "the date of the enactment of this subsection" for "February 28, 1951" after "before, or after".

**1959**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 86–368, §2(b)(1), substituted "or the office of the Chief Counsel for the Internal Revenue Service" for "(including the Assistant General Counsel of the Treasury Department serving as the Chief Counsel of the Internal Revenue Service)".

Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 86–368, §2(b)(2), substituted ", the office of the Chief Counsel for the Internal Revenue Service" for "(including the Assistant General Counsel of the Treasury Department serving as the Chief Counsel of the Internal Revenue Service)".

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date of 1976 Amendment ####

Pub. L. 94–455, title XII, §1210(d)(2), Oct. 4, 1976, 90 Stat. 1711, provided that: "The amendment made by subsection (c) [amending this section] shall take effect on January 1, 1977."

Amendment by section 1907(a)(4) of Pub. L. 94–455 effective on first day of first month which begins more than 90 days after Oct. 4, 1976, see section 1907(c) of Pub. L. 94–455, set out as a note under section 8001 of this title.

#### Effective Date of 1959 Amendment ####

Amendment by Pub. L. 86–368 effective when Chief Counsel for Internal Revenue Service first appointed pursuant to amendment of section 7801 of this title by Pub. L. 86–368 qualifies and takes office, see section 3(b) of Pub. L. 86–368, set out as a note under section 7801 of this title.

## Subtitle H—Financing of Presidential Election Campaigns ##

ChapterSec.[1](#SubtitleH_1_target)
95.Presidential election campaign fund9001
96.Presidential primary matching payment account9031

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**1974**—Pub. L. 93–443, title IV, §408(b), Oct. 15, 1974, 88 Stat. 1297, substituted "Presidential primary matching payment account" for "Presidential election campaign fund advisory board" in item for chapter 96.

**1971**—Pub. L. 92–178, title VIII, §801, Dec. 10, 1971, 85 Stat. 562, added subtitle H.

[1 Section numbers editorially supplied.](#SubtitleH_1)

### **CHAPTER 95—PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION CAMPAIGN FUND** ###

Sec.
9001.Short title.
9002.Definitions.
9003.Condition for eligibility for payments.
9004.Entitlement of eligible candidates to payments.
9005.Certification by Commission.
9006.Payments to eligible candidates.
9007.Examinations and audits; repayments.
9008.Payments for presidential nominating conventions.
9009.Reports to Congress; regulations.
9010.Participation by Commission in judicial proceedings.
9011.Judicial review.
9012.Criminal penalties.
[9013.Repealed.]

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–141, div. U, title IV, §401(d)(8), Mar. 23, 2018, 132 Stat. 1212, struck out item 9013 "Effective date of chapter".

**1974**—Pub. L. 93–443, title IV, §406(c), Oct. 15, 1974, 88 Stat. 1296, substituted "Payments for presidential nominating conventions" for "Information on proposed expenses" in item 9008.

