
### §323. Consumer Information Center Fund [1](#[322_1_target) ###

§323. Consumer Information Center Fund [1](#[322_1_target)

(a) Existence.—There is in the Treasury a Federal Citizen Services Fund, General Services Administration, for the purpose of disseminating Federal Government information to the public and for other related purposes.

(b) Deposits.—Money shall be deposited into the Fund from—

(1) appropriations from the Treasury for Federal Citizen Services activities;

(2) user fees from the public;

(3) reimbursements from other federal agencies for costs of distributing publications; and

(4) any other income incident to Center [2](#323_2_target) activities.

(c) Expenditures.—Money deposited into the Fund is available for expenditure for Center [2](#323_2_target) activities in amounts specified in appropriation laws. The Fund shall assume all liabilities, obligations, and commitments of the Center [2](#323_2_target) account.

(d) Unobligated Balances.—Any unobligated balances at the end of a fiscal year remain in the Fund and are available for authorization in appropriation laws for subsequent fiscal years.

(e) Gift Account.—The Center [2](#323_2_target) may accept and deposit to this account gifts for purposes of defraying the costs of printing, publishing, and distributing consumer information and educational materials and undertaking other consumer information activities. In addition to amounts appropriated or otherwise made available, the Center [2](#323_2_target) may expend the gifts for these purposes and any balance remains available for expenditure.

(f) The Administrator may enter into agreements with federal agencies to provide services through the Fund on a fully reimbursable basis.

(Pub. L. 107–217, Aug. 21, 2002, 116 Stat. 1077; Pub. L. 111–8, div. D, title V, §516, Mar. 11, 2009, 123 Stat. 664; Pub. L. 117–103, div. E, title V, §527, Mar. 15, 2022, 136 Stat. 276.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 323(a)–(d) | 40:761. | Pub. L. 98–63, title I, §101 (1st–9th sentences in par. under heading "Consumer Information Center Fund"), July 30, 1983, 97 Stat. 321. |
| 323(e) | 40:761a. | Pub. L. 105–65, title III, (last proviso in par. under heading "Consumer Information Center Fund"), Oct. 27, 1997, 111 Stat. 1377. |

In this section, the text of 40:761 (6th–last sentences) is omitted as obsolete.

In subsection (a), the words "Notwithstanding any other provision of law" are omitted as unnecessary.

In subsection (b), the words "for fiscal year 1983 and subsequent fiscal years" are omitted as obsolete and unnecessary.

In subsection (e), the words "Notwithstanding any other provision of law" and "during fiscal year 1998 and hereafter" are omitted as unnecessary.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2022**—Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 117–103 added subsec. (f).

**2009**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 111–8 substituted "Federal Citizen Services" for "Consumer Information Center" and struck out "consumer" after "Federal Government".

Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 111–8 substituted "Federal Citizen Services" for "Consumer Information Center".

[1 So in original. Probably should be "Federal Citizen Services Fund".](#323_1)

[2 So in original. See 2009 Amendment notes below.](#323_2)

### **CHAPTER 5—PROPERTY MANAGEMENT** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—PROCUREMENT AND WAREHOUSING ####

Sec.
501.Services for executive agencies.
502.Services for other entities.
503.Exchange or sale of similar items.
504.Agency cooperation for inspection.
505.Exchange or transfer of medical supplies.
506.Inventory controls and systems.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—USE OF PROPERTY ####

521.Policies and methods.
522.Reimbursement for transfer of excess property.
523.Excess real property located on Indian reservations.
524.Duties of executive agencies.
525.Excess personal property for federal agency grantees.
526.Temporary assignment of excess real property.
527.Abandonment, destruction, or donation of property.
528.Utilization of excess furniture.
529.Annual executive agency reports on excess personal property.
530.Internal guidance on excess personal property.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—DISPOSING OF PROPERTY ####

541.Supervision and direction.
542.Care and handling.
543.Method of disposition.
544.Validity of transfer instruments.
545.Procedure for disposal.
546.Contractor inventories.
547.Agricultural commodities, foods, and cotton or woolen goods.
548.Surplus vessels.
549.Donation of personal property through state agencies.
549a.Donation of personal property through nonprofit refurbishers.
550.Disposal of real property for certain purposes.
551.Donations to American Red Cross.
552.Abandoned or unclaimed property on Government premises.
553.Property for correctional facility, law enforcement, and emergency management response purposes.
554.Property for development or operation of a port facility.
555.Donation of law enforcement canines to handlers.
556.Disposal of dredge vessels.
557.Donation of books to Free Public Library.
558.Donation of forfeited vessels.
559.Advice of Attorney General with respect to antitrust law.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—PROCEEDS FROM SALE OR TRANSFER ####

571.General rules for deposit and use of proceeds.
572.Real property.
573.Personal property.
574.Other rules regarding proceeds.
#### SUBCHAPTER V—OPERATION OF BUILDINGS AND RELATED ACTIVITIES ####

581.General authority of Administrator of General Services.
582.Management of buildings by Administrator of General Services.
583.Construction of buildings.
584.Assignment and reassignment of space.
585.Lease agreements.
586.Charges for space and services.
587.Telecommuting and other alternative workplace arrangements.
588.Movement and supply of office furniture.
589.Installation, repair, and replacement of sidewalks.
590.Child care.
591.Purchase of electricity.
592.Federal Buildings Fund.
593.Protection for veterans preference employees.
#### SUBCHAPTER VI—MOTOR VEHICLE POOLS AND TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS ####

601.Purposes.
602.Authority to establish motor vehicle pools and transportation systems.
603.Process for establishing motor vehicle pools and transportation systems.
604.Treatment of assets taken over to establish motor vehicle pools and transportation systems.
605.Payment of costs.
606.Regulations related to operation.
607.Records.
608.Scrip, tokens, tickets.
609.Identification of vehicles.
610.Discontinuance of motor vehicle pool or system.
611.Duty to report violations.
#### SUBCHAPTER VII—PROPERTY MANAGEMENT ####

621.Definitions.
622.Collocation among United States Postal Service properties.
623.Establishment of a Federal Real Property Council.
624.Information on certain leasing authorities.

#### Amendment of Analysis ####

Pub. L. 118–99, §2(e)(3), Oct. 1, 2024, 138 Stat. 1579, provided that, effective on the date that is 5 years after Oct. 1, 2024, this analysis is amended by striking item 530. See 2024 Amendment note below.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2024**—Pub. L. 118–99, §2(c), (e)(3), Oct. 1, 2024, 138 Stat. 1579, added item 530 and, effective 5 years after Oct. 1, 2024, struck out such item 530 "Internal guidance on excess personal property".

**2022**—Pub. L. 117–328, div. Z, §103(b), Dec. 29, 2022, 136 Stat. 5527, added item 549a.

**2016**—Pub. L. 114–318, §3(b)(1), Dec. 16, 2016, 130 Stat. 1613, added item for subchapter VII and items 621 to 624.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date of 2024Amendment ####

Pub. L. 118–99, §2(e), Oct. 1, 2024, 138 Stat. 1579, provided that the amendment made by section 2(e)(3) is effective on the date that is 5 years after Oct. 1, 2024.

### SUBCHAPTER I—PROCUREMENT AND WAREHOUSING ###

