
### §14519. Deferment of retirement or separation for medical reasons ###

§14519. Deferment of retirement or separation for medical reasons

(a) Authority.—If, in the case of an officer required to be retired or separated under this chapter or chapter 1409 of this title, the Secretary concerned determines that the evaluation of the physical condition of the officer and determination of the officer's entitlement to retirement or separation for physical disability require hospitalization or medical observation and that such hospitalization or medical observation cannot be completed with confidence in a manner consistent with the officer's well being before the date on which the officer would otherwise be required to retire or be separated, the Secretary may defer the retirement or separation of the officer.

(b) Period of Deferment.—A deferral of retirement or separation under subsection (a) may not extend for more than 30 days after the completion of the evaluation requiring hospitalization or medical observation.

(Added Pub. L. 107–314, div. A, title V, §522(a), Dec. 2, 2002, 116 Stat. 2540.)

### **CHAPTER 1409—CONTINUATION OF OFFICERS ON THE RESERVE ACTIVE-STATUS LIST AND SELECTIVE EARLY REMOVAL** ###

Sec.
14701.Selection of officers for continuation on the reserve active-status list.
14702.Retention on reserve active-status list of certain officers in the grade of major, lieutenant colonel, colonel, or brigadier general.
14703.Authority to retain chaplains and officers in medical specialties until specified age.
14704.Selective early removal from the reserve active-status list.
14705.Selective early retirement: reserve general and flag officers of the Navy and Marine Corps.
14706.Computation of total years of service.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2008**—Pub. L. 110–417, [div. A], title V, §514(c)(2), Oct. 14, 2008, 122 Stat. 4442, added item 14702 and struck out former item 14702 "Retention on reserve active-status list of certain officers until age 60".

