
### §13664. Definitions ###

§13664. Definitions

#### (a) [1](#13664_1_target) Definitions ####

For purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply:

#### (1) Drug-related criminal activity ####

The term "drug-related criminal activity" has the meaning given the term in section 1437a(b) of this title.

#### (2) Federally assisted housing ####

The term "federally assisted housing" means a dwelling unit—

(A) in public housing (as such term is defined in section 1437a(b) of this title);

(B) assisted with tenant-based assistance under section 1437f of this title;

(C) in housing that is provided project-based assistance under section 1437f of this title, including new construction and substantial rehabilitation projects;

(D) in housing that is assisted under section 1701q of title 12 (as amended by section 801 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act);

(E) in housing that is assisted under section 1701q of title 12, as such section existed before the enactment of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act [November 28, 1990];

(F) in housing that is assisted under section 8013 of this title;

(G) in housing financed by a loan or mortgage insured under section 1715l(d)(3) of title 12 that bears interest at a rate determined under the proviso of section 1715l(d)(5) of title 12;

(H) in housing insured, assisted, or held by the Secretary or a State or State agency under section 1715z–1 of title 12; or

(I) in housing assisted under section 1484 or 1485 of this title.

#### (3) Owner ####

The term "owner" means, with respect to federally assisted housing, the entity or private person (including a cooperative or public housing agency) that has the legal right to lease or sublease dwelling units in such housing.

(Pub. L. 105–276, title V, §579, Oct. 21, 1998, 112 Stat. 2642.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

Section 801 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(2)(D), is section 801 of Pub. L. 101–625.

#### Codification ####

Section was enacted as part of the Quality Housing and Work Responsibility Act of 1998, and not as part of subtitles C to F of title VI of Pub. L. 102–550 which comprise this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date ####

Section effective and applicable beginning upon Oct. 1, 1999, except as otherwise provided, with provision that Secretary may implement any provision of this section before such date, except to extent otherwise provided, see section 503 of Pub. L. 105–276, set out as an Effective Date of 1998 Amendment note under section 1437 of this title.

[1 So in original. No subsec. (b) has been enacted.](#13664_1)

### **CHAPTER 136—VIOLENT CRIME CONTROL AND LAW ENFORCEMENT** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—PRISONS ####

#### Part A—Violent Offender Incarceration and Truth-in-Sentencing Incentive Grants ####

Sec.
13701 to 13713.Transferred.

#### Part B—Miscellaneous Provisions ####

13721 to 13727a. Transferred or Omitted.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—CRIME PREVENTION ####

#### Part A—Ounce of Prevention Council ####

13741 to 13744.Transferred or Omitted.
#### Part B—Local Crime Prevention Block Grant Program ####

13751 to 13758.Repealed.
#### Part C—Model Intensive Grant Programs ####

13771 to 13777.Transferred or Omitted.
#### Part D—Family and Community Endeavor Schools Grant Program ####

13791 to 13793.Repealed, Transferred, or Omitted.
#### Part E—Assistance for Delinquent and At-Risk Youth ####

13801, 13802.Repealed.
#### Part F—Police Recruitment ####

13811, 13812.Transferred or Omitted.
#### Part G—National Community Economic Partnership ####

#### subpart 1—community economic partnership investment funds ####

13821 to 13826.Transferred.
#### subpart 2—emerging community development corporations ####

13841, 13842.Transferred.
#### subpart 3—miscellaneous provisions ####

13851 to 13853.Transferred or Omitted.
#### Part H—Community-Based Justice Grants for Prosecutors ####

13861 to 13868.Transferred or Omitted.
#### Part I—Family Unity Demonstration Project ####

13881 to 13883.Transferred or Omitted.
#### subpart 1—grants to states ####

13891 to 13893.Transferred.
#### subpart 2—family unity demonstration project for federal prisoners ####

13901, 13902.Transferred.
#### Part J—Prevention, Diagnosis, and Treatment of Tuberculosis in Correctional Institutions ####

13911.Transferred.
#### Part K—Gang Resistance Education and Training ####

13921.Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN ####

13925.Transferred.
#### Part A—Safe Streets for Women ####

#### subpart 1—safety for women in public transit ####

13931.Transferred.
#### subpart 2—assistance to victims of sexual assault ####

13941 to 13943.Transferred.
#### Part B—Safe Homes for Women ####

#### subpart 1—confidentiality for abused persons ####

13951.Transferred.
#### subpart 2—data and research ####

13961 to 13963.Transferred.
#### subpart 3—rural domestic violence and child abuse enforcement ####

13971.Transferred.
#### subpart 3a—research on effective interventions to address violence against women ####

13973.Repealed.
#### subpart 4—transitional housing assistance grants for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking ####

13975.Transferred.
#### Part C—Civil Rights for Women ####

13981.Transferred.
#### Part D—Equal Justice for Women in Courts ####

#### subpart 1—education and training for judges and court personnel in state courts ####

13991 to 13994.Transferred or Omitted.
#### subpart 2—education and training for judges and court personnel in federal courts ####

14001, 14002.Transferred or Omitted.
#### Part E—Violence Against Women Act Improvements ####

14011 to 14016.Transferred or Omitted.
#### Part F—National Stalker and Domestic Violence Reduction ####

14031 to 14040.Transferred.
#### Part G—Enhanced Training and Services To End Abuse Later in Life ####

14041 to 14041b. Transferred or Omitted.
#### Part H—Domestic Violence Task Force ####

14042.Transferred.
#### Part I—Violence Against Women Act Court Training and Improvements ####

14043 to 14043a–3. Repealed.
#### Part J—Privacy Protections for Victims of Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Violence, and Stalking ####

14043b to 14043b–4. Transferred or Omitted.
#### Part K—Services, Education, Protection and Justice for Young Victims of Violence ####

14043c to 14043c–3. Repealed or Transferred.
#### Part L—Strengthening America's Families by Preventing Violence Against Women and Children ####

14043d to 14043d–4. Repealed or Transferred.
#### Part M—Addressing the Housing Needs of Victims of Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, and Stalking ####

#### subpart 1—grant programs ####

14043e to 14043e–4. Transferred.
#### subpart 2—housing rights ####

14043e–11.Transferred.
#### Part N—National Resource Center ####

14043f.Transferred.
#### Part N–1—Sexual Assault Services ####

14043g, 14043g–1. Transferred.
#### Part N–2—Rape Survivor Child Custody ####

14043h to 14043h–7. Transferred.
#### Part O—Combatting Domestic Trafficking in Persons ####

14044 to 14044h. Transferred.
#### Part P—Miscellaneous Authorities ####

14045 to 14045d. Repealed or Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—DRUG CONTROL ####

14051 to 14053.Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER V—CRIMINAL STREET GANGS ####

14061, 14062.Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER VI—CRIMES AGAINST CHILDREN ####

14071 to 14073.Repealed.
#### SUBCHAPTER VII—RURAL CRIME ####

14081 to 14083.Transferred or Omitted.
#### SUBCHAPTER VIII—POLICE CORPS AND LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS TRAINING AND EDUCATION ####

#### Part A—Police Corps ####

14091 to 14102.Repealed, Transferred, or Omitted.
#### Part B—Law Enforcement Scholarship Program ####

14111 to 14119.Transferred or Omitted.
#### SUBCHAPTER IX—STATE AND LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT ####

#### Part A—DNA Identification ####

14131 to 14137c. Transferred or Omitted.
#### Part B—Police Pattern or Practice ####

14141, 14142.Transferred.
#### Part C—Improved Training and Technical Automation ####

14151.Repealed.
#### Part D—Other State and Local Aid ####

14161.Repealed.
#### Part E—Improving the Quality of Representation in State Capital Cases ####

14163 to 14163e. Transferred.
#### Part F—Rafael Ramos and Wenjian Liu National Blue Alert ####

14165 to 14165b. Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER X—MOTOR VEHICLE THEFT PROTECTION ####

14171.Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER XI—PROTECTIONS FOR THE ELDERLY ####

14181.Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER XII—PRESIDENTIAL SUMMIT ON VIOLENCE AND NATIONAL COMMISSION ON CRIME PREVENTION AND CONTROL ####

14191 to 14199.Omitted.
#### SUBCHAPTER XIII—VIOLENT CRIME REDUCTION TRUST FUND ####

14211 to 14214.Repealed or Transferred.
#### SUBCHAPTER XIV—MISCELLANEOUS ####

14221 to 14223.Transferred.

### SUBCHAPTER I—PRISONS ###

### Part A—Violent Offender Incarceration and Truth-in-Sentencing Incentive Grants ###

