
### §15506. Facilities for interchange of traffic ###

§15506. Facilities for interchange of traffic

A pipeline carrier providing transportation subject to this part shall provide reasonable, proper, and equal facilities that are within its power to provide for the interchange of traffic between, and for the receiving, forwarding, and delivering of property to and from, its respective line and a connecting line of a pipeline, rail, or water carrier under this subtitle.

(Added Pub. L. 104–88, title I, §106(a), Dec. 29, 1995, 109 Stat. 924.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Prior Provisions ####

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in section 10742 of this title prior to the general amendment of this subtitle by Pub. L. 104–88, §102(a).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date ####

Section effective Jan. 1, 1996, except as otherwise provided in Pub. L. 104–88, see section 2 of Pub. L. 104–88, set out as a note under section 1301 of this title.

### **CHAPTER 157—OPERATIONS OF CARRIERS** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER A—GENERAL REQUIREMENTS ####

Sec.
15701.Providing transportation and service.
#### SUBCHAPTER B—OPERATIONS OF CARRIERS ####

15721.Definitions.
15722.Records: form; inspection; preservation.
15723.Reports by carriers, lessors, and associations.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**1996**—Pub. L. 104–287, §5(43)(A), Oct. 11, 1996, 110 Stat. 3392, struck out duplicative chapter heading and made technical amendments to items for subchapters A and B.

### SUBCHAPTER A—GENERAL REQUIREMENTS ###

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**1996**—Pub. L. 104–287, §5(43)(B)(i), Oct. 11, 1996, 110 Stat. 3393, made technical amendment to subchapter heading.

