
### §5732. Separate part of country reports ###

§5732. Separate part of country reports

Whenever a report is transmitted to the Congress on a country-by-country basis there shall be included in such report, where applicable, a separate subreport on Hong Kong under the heading of the state that exercises sovereignty over Hong Kong. The reports to which this section applies include the reports transmitted under—

(1) sections 2151n(d) and 2304(b) of this title (relating to human rights);

(2) section 2241 of title 19 (relating to trade barriers); and

(3) section 4711 [1](#5732_1_target) of title 15 (relating to economic policy and trade practices).

(Pub. L. 102–383, title III, §302, Oct. 5, 1992, 106 Stat. 1454.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

Section 4711 of title 15, referred to in par. (3), was repealed by Pub. L. 107–228, div. A, title VI, §671(1), Sept. 30, 2002, 116 Stat. 1407.

[1 See References in Text note below.](#5732_1)

### **CHAPTER 67—FREEDOM FOR RUSSIA AND EMERGING EURASIAN DEMOCRACIES AND OPEN MARKETS SUPPORT** ###

Sec.
5801.Definition of independent states.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ####

5811.Findings.
5812.Program coordination, implementation, and oversight.
5813.Report on overall assistance and economic cooperation strategy.
5814.Repealed.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—BUSINESS AND COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT ####

5821.American Business Centers.
5822.Business and Agriculture Advisory Council.
5823.Funding for export promotion activities and capital projects.
5824.Interagency working group on energy of the Trade Promotion Coordinating Committee.
5825.Repealed.
5826.Policy on combatting tied aid practices.
5827.Technical assistance for Russian Far East.
5828.Funding for OPIC programs.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—THE DEMOCRACY CORPS ####

5841.Authorization for establishment of Democracy Corps.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—NONPROLIFERATION AND DISARMAMENT PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES ####

5851.Findings.
5852.Eligibility.
5853.Nonproliferation and disarmament activities in independent states.
5854.Nonproliferation and disarmament fund.
5855.Limitations on defense conversion authorities.
5856.Soviet weapons destruction.
5857.Waiver of certain provisions.
5858.Notice and reports to Congress.
5859.International nonproliferation initiative.
5859a.International nonproliferation initiative.
5860.Report on special nuclear materials.
5861.Research and Development Foundation.
#### SUBCHAPTER V—SPACE TRADE AND COOPERATION ####

5871.Facilitating discussions regarding acquisition of space hardware, technology, and services from former Soviet Union.
5872.Office of Space Commerce.
5873.Report to Congress.
5874.Definitions.

