
### §835. Art. 35. Service of charges; commencement of trial ###

§835. Art. 35. Service of charges; commencement of trial

(a) In General.—Trial counsel detailed for a court-martial under section 827 of this title (article 27) shall cause to be served upon the accused a copy of the charges and specifications referred for trial.

(b) Commencement of Trial.—(1) Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), no trial or other proceeding of a general court-martial or a special court-martial (including any session under section 839(a) of this title (article 39(a)) may be held over the objection of the accused—

(A) with respect to a general court-martial, from the time of service through the fifth day after the date of service; or

(B) with respect to a special court-martial, from the time of service through the third day after the date of service.

(2) An objection under paragraph (1) may be raised only at the first session of the trial or other proceeding and only if the first session occurs before the end of the applicable period under paragraph (1)(A) or (1)(B). If the first session occurs before the end of the applicable period, the military judge shall, at that session, inquire as to whether the defense objects under this subsection.

(3) This subsection shall not apply in time of war.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 49; Pub. L. 90–632, §2(12), Oct. 24, 1968, 82 Stat. 1337; Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LVI, §5206, Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2908.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 835 | 50:606. | May 5, 1950, ch. 169, §1 (Art. 35), 64 Stat. 119. |

The word "may" is substituted for the word "shall". The word "after" is substituted for the words "subsequent to".

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2016**—Pub. L. 114–328 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: "The trial counsel to whom court-martial charges are referred for trial shall cause to be served upon the accused a copy of the charges upon which trial is to be had. In time of peace no person may, against his objection, be brought to trial, or be required to participate by himself or counsel in a session called by the military judge under section 839(a) of this title (article 39(a)), in a general court-martial case within a period of five days after the service of charges upon him, or in a special court-martial case within a period of three days after the service of charges upon him."

**1968**—Pub. L. 90–632 inserted reference to a session called by the military judge under section 839(a) of this title (article 39(a)).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date of 2016 Amendment ####

Amendment by Pub. L. 114–328 effective on Jan. 1, 2019, as designated by the President, with implementing regulations and provisions relating to applicability to various situations, see section 5542 of Pub. L. 114–328 and Ex. Ord. No. 13825, set out as notes under section 801 of this title.

#### Effective Date of 1968 Amendment ####

Amendment by Pub. L. 90–632 effective first day of tenth month following October 1968, see section 4 of Pub. L. 90–632, set out as a note under section 801 of this title.

### SUBCHAPTER VII—TRIAL PROCEDURE ###

 
| Sec. | Art. ||
| 836. | 36. | President may prescribe rules. |
| 837. | 37. | Command influence. |
| 838. | 38. | Duties of trial counsel and defense counsel. |
| 839. | 39. | Sessions. |
| 840. | 40. | Continuances. |
| 841. | 41. | Challenges. |
| 842. | 42. | Oaths. |
| 843. | 43. | Statute of limitations. |
| 844. | 44. | Former jeopardy. |
| 845. | 45. | Pleas of the accused. |
| 846. | 46. | Opportunity to obtain witnesses and other evidence in trials by court-martial. |
| 847. | 47. | Refusal of person not subject to chapter to appear, testify, or produce evidence. |
| 848. | 48. | Contempt. |
| 849. | 49. | Depositions. |
| 850. | 50. | Admissibility of sworn testimony from records of courts of inquiry. |
| 850a. | 50a. | Defense of lack of mental responsibility. |
| 851. | 51. | Voting and rulings. |
| 852. | 52. | Votes required for conviction, sentencing, and other matters. |
| 853. | 53. | Findings and sentencing. |
| 853a. | 53a. | Plea agreements. |
| 854. | 54. | Record of trial. |

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2021**—Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title X, §1081(a)(20), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 3871, added item 837 and struck out former item 837 "837. Art. 37. Command influence".

**2019**—Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title V, §532(b), Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 1361, in item 837 substituted "Art. 37. Command influence" for "37. Unlawfully influencing action of court".

**2017**—Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title X, §1081(d)(19)(A), Dec. 12, 2017, 131 Stat. 1601, made technical amendment to Pub. L. 114–328, §5541(4). See 2016 Amendment note below.

**2016**—Pub. L. 114–328, div. E, title LXIII, §5541(4), Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2966, as amended by Pub. L. 115–91, div. A, title X, §1081(d)(19)(A), Dec. 12, 2017, 131 Stat. 1601, added item 853a and substituted "Opportunity to obtain witnesses and other evidence in trials by court-martial" for "Opportunity to obtain witnesses and other evidence" in item 846, "Refusal of person not subject to chapter to appear, testify, or produce evidence" for "Refusal to appear or testify" in item 847, "Contempt" for "Contempts" in item 848, "Admissibility of sworn testimony from records of courts of inquiry" for "Admissibility of records of courts of inquiry" in item 850, "Votes required for conviction, sentencing, and other matters" for "Number of votes required" in item 852, and "Findings and sentencing" for "Court to announce action" in item 853.

**1986**—Pub. L. 99–661, div. A, title VIII, §802(a)(2), Nov. 14, 1986, 100 Stat. 3906, added item 850a.

