
### §9598. Authorization of appropriations ###

§9598. Authorization of appropriations

There are authorized to be appropriated to the Under Secretary $110,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025 to carry out this chapter, of which—

(1) a majority shall be used in each such fiscal year to carry out the MBDA Business Center Program under part B of subchapter I, including the component of that program relating to specialty centers; and

(2) $20,000,000 shall be used in each such fiscal year to carry out subchapter III.

(Pub. L. 117–58, div. K, title VII, §100708, Nov. 15, 2021, 135 Stat. 1467.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original "this division", meaning div. K of Pub. L. 117–58, Nov. 15, 2021, 135 Stat. 1445, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of division K to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 9501 of this title and Tables.

### **CHAPTER 121—FLOOD LEVEL OBSERVATION, OPERATIONS, AND DECISION SUPPORT** ###

Sec.
9701.Definitions.
9702.National Integrated Flood Information System.
9703.Observations and modeling for total water prediction.
9704.Service coordination hydrologists at River Forecast Centers of the National Weather Service.
9705.Improving National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration communication of future flood risks and hazardous flash flood events.
9706.Freshwater monitoring along the coast.
9707.Estimates of precipitation frequency in the United States.
9708.Interagency Committee on Water Management and Infrastructure.
9709.National Weather Service hydrologic research fellowship program.
9710.Identification and support of consistent, Federal set of forward-looking, long-term meteorological information.
9711.Gap analysis on availability of snow-related data to assess and predict flood and flood impacts.
9712.Availability to the public of flood-related data.

