
### §934. Forfeiture and fines ###

§934. Forfeiture and fines

(a) Forfeiture.—

(1) In general.—Any person convicted of a violation of section 932 or 933 shall forfeit to the United States, irrespective of any provision of State law—

(A) any property constituting, or derived from, any proceeds the person obtained, directly or indirectly, as the result of such violation; and

(B) any of the person's property used, or intended to be used, in any manner or part, to commit, or to facilitate the commission of, such violation, except that for any forfeiture of any firearm or ammunition pursuant to this section, section 924(d) shall apply.

(2) Imposition.—The court, in imposing sentence on a person convicted of a violation of section 932 or 933, shall order, in addition to any other sentence imposed pursuant to section 932 or 933, that the person forfeit to the United States all property described in paragraph (1).

(b) Fines.—A defendant who derives profits or other proceeds from an offense under section 932 or 933 may be fined not more than the greater of—

(1) the fine otherwise authorized by this part; or

(2) the amount equal to twice the gross profits or other proceeds of the offense under section 932 or 933.

(Added Pub. L. 117–159, div. A, title II, §12004(a)(1), June 25, 2022, 136 Stat. 1327.)

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Rule of Construction ####

Nothing in section 12004(a)(1) of Pub. L. 117–159, which enacted this section, to be construed to allow the establishment of a Federal system of registration of firearms, firearms owners, or firearms transactions or dispositions, see section 12004(k) of Pub. L. 117–159, set out as a note under section 922 of this title.

### **CHAPTER 45—FOREIGN RELATIONS** ###

Sec.
951.Agents of foreign governments.
952.Diplomatic codes and correspondence.
953.Private correspondence with foreign governments.
954.False statements influencing foreign government.
955.Financial transactions with foreign governments.
956.Conspiracy to kill, kidnap, maim, or injure persons or damage property in a foreign country.
957.Possession of property in aid of foreign government.
958.Commission to serve against friendly nation.
959.Enlistment in foreign service.
960.Expedition against friendly nation.
961.Strengthening armed vessel of foreign nation.
962.Arming vessel against friendly nation.
963.Detention of armed vessel.
964.Delivering armed vessel to belligerent nation.
965.Verified statements as prerequisite to vessel's departure.
966.Departure of vessel forbidden for false statements.
967.Departure of vessel forbidden in aid of neutrality.
[968, 969.Repealed.]
970.Protection of property occupied by foreign governments.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**1996**—Pub. L. 104–132, title VII, §704(b), Apr. 24, 1996, 110 Stat. 1295, substituted "Conspiracy to kill, kidnap, maim, or injure persons or damage property in a foreign country" for "Conspiracy to injure property of foreign government" in item 956.

**1990**—Pub. L. 101–647, title XII, §1207(a), title XXXV, §3530, Nov. 29, 1990, 104 Stat. 4832, 4924, struck out item 968 "Exportation of war materials to certain countries" and item 969 "Exportation of arms, liquors and narcotics to Pacific Islands".

**1972**—Pub. L. 92–539, title IV, §402, Oct. 24, 1972, 86 Stat. 1073, added item 970.

