
### §5144. Certification of rental proceeds ###

§5144. Certification of rental proceeds

Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any actual rental proceeds from the lease of land acquired under section 5136 of this title certified by the Secretary of the Interior shall be deemed—

(1) to constitute the rental value of that land; and

(2) to satisfy the requirement for appraisal of that land.

(Pub. L. 109–221, title II, §203, May 12, 2006, 120 Stat. 341.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

Section was formerly classified to section 494a of this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

### **CHAPTER 45A—OKLAHOMA INDIAN WELFARE** ###

Sec.
5201.Acquisition of agricultural and grazing lands for Indians; title to lands; tax exemption.
5202.Purchase of restricted Indian lands; preference to Secretary of the Interior; waiver of preference.
5203.Organization of tribes or bands; constitution; charter; right to participate in revolving credit fund.
5204.Cooperative associations; charter; purposes; voting rights.
5205.Amendment or revocation of charters; suits by and against associations
5206.Loans to individuals and groups; appropriation.
5207.Availability and allocation of funds; royalties from mineral deposits.
5208.Application of provisions to Osage County.
5209.Rules and regulations; repeals.
5210.Payment of gross production taxes; method.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

Chapter was formerly classified to subchapter VIII (§501 et seq.) of chapter 14 of this title prior to editorial reclassification as this chapter.

