
### §9312. Authorization of appropriations; contract authority ###

§9312. Authorization of appropriations; contract authority

(a) There is hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1981, such sums as are provided in the annual authorization Act pursuant to section 7270 of this title.

(b) In carrying out the provisions of this chapter, the Secretary is authorized to enter into contracts only to such extent or in such amounts as may be provided in advance in appropriations Acts.

(Pub. L. 96–386, §13, Oct. 7, 1980, 94 Stat. 1544.)

### **CHAPTER 102—MENTAL HEALTH SYSTEMS** ###

Sec.
9401.Congressional statement of findings.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ####

9411.Repealed.
9412.Definitions.
9421 to 9423. Repealed.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—GRANT PROGRAMS ####

9431 to 9438. Repealed.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—GENERAL PROVISIONS RESPECTING GRANT PROGRAMS ####

#### Part A—State Mental Health Service Programs ####

9451, 9452. Repealed.
#### Part B—Applications and Related Provisions ####

9461 to 9465. Repealed.
#### Part C—Performance ####

9471 to 9473. Repealed.
#### Part D—Enforcement ####

9481.Repealed.
#### Part E—Miscellaneous ####

9491 to 9493. Repealed.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—MENTAL HEALTH RIGHTS AND ADVOCACY ####

9501.Bill of Rights.
9502.Repealed.
#### SUBCHAPTER V—SEX OFFENSE PREVENTION AND CONTROL ####

9511.Grants for sex offense prevention and control.
9512.Repealed.
#### SUBCHAPTER VI—MISCELLANEOUS ####

9521.Repealed.
9522.Report on shelter and basic living needs of chronically mentally ill individuals.
9523.Repealed.

