
### §10603. Seaman's duty to notify employer regarding illness, disability, and injury ###

§10603. Seaman's duty to notify employer regarding illness, disability, and injury

(a) A seaman on a fishing vessel, fish processing vessel, or fish tender vessel shall notify the master or individual in charge of the vessel or other agent of the employer regarding any illness, disability, or injury suffered by the seaman when in service to the vessel not later than seven days after the date on which the illness, disability, or injury arose.

(b) The Secretary shall prescribe regulations requiring that each fishing vessel, fish processing vessel, and fish tender vessel shall have on board a placard displayed in a prominent location accessible to the crew describing the seaman's duty under subsection (a) of this section.

(Pub. L. 100–424, §6(a), Sept. 9, 1988, 102 Stat. 1592.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source section (U.S. Code)* |
| 10603 | New |

### **CHAPTER 107—EFFECTS OF DECEASED SEAMEN** ###

Sec.
10701.Application.
10702.Duties of masters.
10703.Procedures of masters.
10704.Duties of consular officers.
10705.Disposition of money, property, and wages by consular officers.
10706.Seamen dying in the United States.
[10707.Repealed.]
10708.Sale of property.
10709.Distribution.
10710.Unclaimed money, property, and wages.
10711.Penalties.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**1993**—Pub. L. 103–206, title IV, §420(b), Dec. 20, 1993, 107 Stat. 2438, struck out item 10707 "Delivery to district court".

