
### §119. Protection of individuals performing certain official duties ###

§119. Protection of individuals performing certain official duties

(a) In General.—Whoever knowingly makes restricted personal information about a covered person, or a member of the immediate family of that covered person, publicly available—

(1) with the intent to threaten, intimidate, or incite the commission of a crime of violence against that covered person, or a member of the immediate family of that covered person; or

(2) with the intent and knowledge that the restricted personal information will be used to threaten, intimidate, or facilitate the commission of a crime of violence against that covered person, or a member of the immediate family of that covered person,

shall be fined under this title, imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.

(b) Definitions.—In this section—

(1) the term "restricted personal information" means, with respect to an individual, the Social Security number, the home address, home phone number, mobile phone number, personal email, or home fax number of, and identifiable to, that individual;

(2) the term "covered person" means—

(A) an individual designated in section 1114;

(B) a grand or petit juror, witness, or other officer in or of, any court of the United States, or an officer who may be, or was, serving at any examination or other proceeding before any United States magistrate judge or other committing magistrate;

(C) an informant or witness in a Federal criminal investigation or prosecution; or

(D) a State or local officer or employee whose restricted personal information is made publicly available because of the participation in, or assistance provided to, a Federal criminal investigation by that officer or employee;

(3) the term "crime of violence" has the meaning given the term in section 16; and

(4) the term "immediate family" has the meaning given the term in section 115(c)(2).

(Added Pub. L. 110–177, title II, §202(a), Jan. 7, 2008, 121 Stat. 2536.)

### **CHAPTER 9—BANKRUPTCY** ###

Sec.
151.Definition.
152.Concealment of assets; false oaths and claims; bribery.
153.Embezzlement against estate.
154.Adverse interest and conduct of officers.
155.Fee agreements in cases under title 11 and receiverships.
156.Knowing disregard of bankruptcy law or rule.
157.Bankruptcy fraud.
158.Designation of United States attorneys and agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation to address abusive reaffirmations of debt and materially fraudulent statements in bankruptcy schedules.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2005**—Pub. L. 109–8, title II, §203(b)(2), Apr. 20, 2005, 119 Stat. 49, added item 158.

**1994**—Pub. L. 103–394, title III, §312(a)(2), Oct. 22, 1994, 108 Stat. 4140, substituted "against estate" for "by trustee or officer" in item 153 and added items 156 and 157.

**1978**—Pub. L. 95–598, title III, §314(b)(2), (d)(3), (e)(3), (f)(3), Nov. 6, 1978, 92 Stat. 2677, substituted in item 151 "Definition" for "Definitions"; struck from item 153 ", receiver" after "trustee" and from item 154 "referees and other" before "officers"; and substituted in item 155 "cases under title 11 and receiverships" for "bankruptcy proceedings".

