
### §20714. Training of tribal law enforcement and prosecutorial personnel ###

§20714. Training of tribal law enforcement and prosecutorial personnel

The Attorney General, in consultation with the Director of the Office of Tribal Justice, shall carry out a program under which tribal law enforcement officials may receive technical assistance and training to pursue a victim-centered approach to investigating and prosecuting severe forms of trafficking in persons (as defined in section 7102 of title 22).

(Pub. L. 109–164, title II, §214, formerly Pub. L. 115–393, title V, §504, Dec. 21, 2018, 132 Stat. 5277; renumbered §214 of Pub. L. 109–164, Pub. L. 117–347, title I, §106(b)(3), Jan. 5, 2023, 136 Stat. 6205.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

Section was formerly classified to section 20709c of this title prior to renumbering by Pub. L. 117–347.

### **CHAPTER 209—CHILD PROTECTION AND SAFETY** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—SEX OFFENDER REGISTRATION AND NOTIFICATION ####

Sec.
20901.Declaration of purpose.
20902.Establishment of program.
20903.Tribal registry.

#### Part A—Sex Offender Registration and Notification ####

20911.Relevant definitions, including Amie Zyla expansion of sex offender definition and expanded inclusion of child predators.
20912.Registry requirements for jurisdictions.
20913.Registry requirements for sex offenders.
20914.Information required in registration.
20915.Duration of registration requirement.
20916.Direction to the Attorney General.
20917.Checking system for social networking websites.
20918.Periodic in person verification.
20919.Duty to notify sex offenders of registration requirements and to register.
20920.Public access to sex offender information through the Internet.
20921.National Sex Offender Registry.
20922.Dru Sjodin National Sex Offender Public Website.
20923.Megan Nicole Kanka and Alexandra Nicole Zapp Community Notification Program.
20924.Actions to be taken when sex offender fails to comply.
20925.Development and availability of registry management and website software.
20926.Period for implementation by jurisdictions.
20927.Failure of jurisdiction to comply.
20928.Sex Offender Management Assistance (SOMA) program.
20929.Election by Indian tribes.
20930.Registration of sex offenders entering the United States.
20931.Registration of sex offenders released from military corrections facilities or upon conviction.
20932.Immunity for good faith conduct.
#### Part B—Improving Federal Criminal Law Enforcement To Ensure Sex Offender Compliance With Registration and Notification Requirements and Protection of Children From Violent Predators ####

20941.Federal assistance with respect to violations of registration requirements.
20942.Project Safe Childhood.
20943.Federal assistance in identification and location of sex offenders relocated as a result of a major disaster.
20944.Expansion of training and technology efforts.
20945.Office of Sex Offender Sentencing, Monitoring, Apprehending, Registering, and Tracking.
#### Part C—Access to Information and Resources Needed To Ensure That Children Are Not Attacked or Abused ####

20961.Access to national crime information databases.
20962.Schools SAFE Act.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—CIVIL COMMITMENT OF DANGEROUS SEX OFFENDERS ####

20971.Jimmy Ryce State civil commitment programs for sexually dangerous persons.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—GRANTS AND OTHER PROVISIONS ####

20981.Pilot program for monitoring sexual offenders.
20982.Assistance for prosecution of cases cleared through use of DNA backlog clearance funds.
20983.Grants to combat sexual abuse of children.
20984.Grants for fingerprinting programs for children.
20985.Grants for Rape, Abuse & Incest National Network.
20986.Children's safety online awareness campaigns.
20987.Grants for online child safety programs.
20988.Jessica Lunsford Address Verification Grant Program.
20989.Fugitive Safe Surrender.
20990.National registry of substantiated cases of child abuse.
20991.Annual report on enforcement of registration requirements.

### SUBCHAPTER I—SEX OFFENDER REGISTRATION AND NOTIFICATION ###

