
### §153. Simplified acquisition threshold for contract in support of humanitarian or peacekeeping operation ###

§153. Simplified acquisition threshold for contract in support of humanitarian or peacekeeping operation

(1) In general.—In division C, the term "simplified acquisition threshold" has the meaning provided that term in section 134 of this title, except that, in the case of a contract to be awarded and performed, or purchase to be made, outside the United States in support of a humanitarian or peacekeeping operation, the term means an amount equal to two times the amount specified for that term in section 134 of this title.

(2) Definition.—In paragraph (1), the term "humanitarian or peacekeeping operation" means a military operation in support of the provision of humanitarian or foreign disaster assistance or in support of a peacekeeping operation under chapter VI or VII of the Charter of the United Nations. The term does not include routine training, force rotation, or stationing.

(Pub. L. 111–350, §3, Jan. 4, 2011, 124 Stat. 3683.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 153(1) | 41:259(d)(1). | June 30, 1949, ch. 288, title III, §309(d)(1), as added Pub. L. 103–355, title I, §1551, Oct. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 3299; Pub. L. 104–201, title VIII, §807(b)(1), (2), Sept. 23, 1996, 110 Stat. 2606. |
| 153(2) | 41:259(d)(2). | June 30, 1949, ch. 288, title III, §309(d)(2), as added Pub. L. 104–201, title VIII, §807(b)(3), Sept. 23, 1996, 110 Stat. 2606. |

In paragraph (1), the words "a contingency operation or", and the text of 41 U.S.C. 259(d)(2)(A), are omitted because the increased simplified acquisition threshold established under section 32A of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (Public Law 93–400) in the case of a contract to be awarded and performed, or purchase to be made, outside the United States in support of a contingency operation supersedes the threshold established under this section. Section 32A is restated as section 1903 of the revised title.

## Division B—Office of Federal Procurement Policy ##

### **CHAPTER 11—ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE AND AUTHORITY AND FUNCTIONS OF ADMINISTRATOR** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL ####

Sec.
1101.Office of Federal Procurement Policy.
1102.Administrator.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—AUTHORITY AND FUNCTIONS OF THE ADMINISTRATOR ####

1121.General authority.
1122.Functions.
1123.Small business concerns.
1124.Tests of innovative procurement methods and procedures.
1125.Recipients of Federal grants or assistance.
1126.Policy regarding consideration of contractor past performance.
1127.Determining benchmark compensation amount.
1128.Maintaining necessary capability with respect to acquisition of architectural and engineering services.
1129.Center of excellence in contracting for services.
1130.Effect of division on other law.
1131.Annual report.

#### Amendment of Analysis ####

Pub. L. 113–67, div. A, title VII, §702(b)(2), (c), Dec. 26, 2013, 127 Stat. 1189, provided that, applicable only with respect to costs of compensation incurred under contracts entered into on or after the date that is 180 days after Dec. 26, 2013, this analysis is amended by striking out item 1127. See 2013 Amendment note below.

Pub. L. 113–66, div. A, title VIII, §811(c)(2), (d), Dec. 26, 2013, 127 Stat. 806, provided that, applicable with respect to costs of compensation incurred under contracts entered into on or after the date that is 180 days after Dec. 26, 2013, this analysis is amended by striking out item 1127. See 2013 Amendment note below.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2013**—Pub. L. 113–66, div. A, title VIII, §811(c)(2), Dec. 26, 2013, 127 Stat. 806, and Pub. L. 113–67, div. A, title VII, §702(b)(2), Dec. 26, 2013, 127 Stat. 1189, struck out item 1127 "Determining benchmark compensation amount".

### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL ###

