
### §200104. Consultations of Secretary with administrative officers; execution of administrative responsibilities in conformity with nationwide plan ###

§200104. Consultations of Secretary with administrative officers; execution of administrative responsibilities in conformity with nationwide plan

To carry out the policy declared in section 200101 of this title, the heads of Federal agencies having administrative responsibility over activities or resources the conduct or use of which is pertinent to fulfillment of that policy shall, individually or as a group—

(1) consult with and be consulted by the Secretary from time to time both with respect to their conduct of those activities and their use of those resources and with respect to the activities that the Secretary carries on under authority of this chapter that are pertinent to their work; and

(2) carry out that responsibility in general conformance with the nationwide plan authorized under section 200103(d) of this title.

(Pub. L. 113–287, §3, Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3171.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 200104 | 16 U.S.C. 460*l*–2. | Pub. L. 88–29, §3, May 28, 1963, 77 Stat. 50. |

The word "department" is omitted as being included in "agency". The word "independent" is omitted as unnecessary.

### **CHAPTER 2003—LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION FUND** ###

Sec.
200301.Definitions.
200302.Establishment of Land and Water Conservation Fund.
200303.Availability of funds.
200304.Statement of estimated requirements.
200305.Financial assistance to States.
200306.Allocation of Fund amounts for Federal purposes.
200307.Availability of Fund amounts for publicity purposes.
200308.Contracts for acquisition of land and water.
200309.Contracts for options to acquire land and water in System.
200310.Transfers to and from Fund.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2020**—Pub. L. 116–152, §3(c), Aug. 4, 2020, 134 Stat. 687, substituted "Availability of funds" for "Appropriations for expenditure of Fund amounts" in item 200303.

