
### §12309. Penalties ###

§12309. Penalties

(a) A person willfully violating this chapter or a regulation prescribed under this chapter shall be fined not more than $5,000, imprisoned for not more than one year, or both.

(b) A person violating this chapter or a regulation prescribed under this chapter is liable to the United States Government for a civil penalty of not more than $1,000. If the violation involves the operation of a vessel, the vessel also is liable in rem for the penalty.

(c) When a civil penalty of not more than $200 has been assessed under this chapter, the Secretary may refer the matter of collection of the penalty directly to the United States magistrate judge of the jurisdiction in which the person liable may be found for collection procedures under supervision of the district court and under an order issued by the court delegating this authority under section 636(b) of title 28.

(Pub. L. 98–89, Aug. 26, 1983, 97 Stat. 592; Pub. L. 101–650, title III, §321, Dec. 1, 1990, 104 Stat. 5117.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised section* | *Source section (U.S. Code)* |
| 12309(a) | 46:1483 |
| 12309(b) | 46:1484(b) |
| 12309(c) | 46:1484(d) |

Section 12309 provides for civil and criminal penalties for violation of the vessel numbering provisions in this title.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Change of Name ####

"United States magistrate judge" substituted for "United States magistrate" in subsec. (c) pursuant to section 321 of Pub. L. 101–650, set out as a note under section 631 of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

### **CHAPTER 125—VESSEL IDENTIFICATION SYSTEM** ###

Sec.
12501.Establishment of a vessel identification system.
12502.Identification numbers, signal letters, and markings.
12503.Information available to the system.
12504.Information available from the system.
12505.Fees.
12506.Delegation of authority.
12507.Penalties.

#### Historical and Revision Notes ####

Section 101 of H.R. 3105, as amended, adds a new chapter 125 to title 46, United States Code, to establish a vessel identification system for all vessels of the United States. This would include vessels documented under chapter 121 of title 46, numbered under chapter 123 of that title, or titled under the law of a State. This new chapter consists of new sections 12501–12507 as follows.

