
### §6481. Susan L. Williams National Coral Reef Management Fellowship ###

§6481. Susan L. Williams National Coral Reef Management Fellowship

#### (a) Definitions ####

In this section:

#### (1) Alaska Native Corporation ####

The term "Alaska Native Corporation" has the meaning given the term "Native Corporation" in section 1602 of title 43.

#### (2) Fellow ####

The term "fellow" means a National Coral Reef Management Fellow.

#### (3) Fellowship ####

The term "fellowship" means the National Coral Reef Management Fellowship established in subsection (c).

#### (4) Covered Native entity ####

The term "covered Native entity" has the meaning given the term in section 6415 of this title, as added by this division.

#### (5) Covered State ####

The term "covered State" has the meaning given the term in section 6415 of this title, as added by this division.

#### (6) Native entity ####

The term "Native entity" has the meaning given the term in section 6415 of this title, as added by this division.

#### (7) Secretary ####

The term "Secretary" means the Secretary of Commerce.

#### (b) Establishment of fellowship program ####

#### (1) In general ####

There is established a National Coral Reef Management Fellowship Program.

#### (2) Purposes ####

The purposes of the fellowship are—

(A) to encourage future leaders of the United States to develop additional coral reef management capacity in States and local communities with coral reefs;

(B) to provide management agencies of covered States and covered Native entities with highly qualified candidates whose education and work experience meet the specific needs of each covered State or covered Native entity; and

(C) to provide fellows with professional experience in management of coastal and coral reef resources.

#### (c) Fellowship awards ####

#### (1) In general ####

The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of the Interior, shall award a fellowship in accordance with this subsection.

#### (2) Term of fellowship ####

A fellowship awarded under this subsection shall be for a term of not more than 2 years.

#### (3) Qualifications ####

The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of the Interior, shall award a fellowship to individuals who have demonstrated—

(A) an intent to pursue a career in marine services and outstanding potential for such a career;

(B) leadership potential, actual leadership experience, or both;

(C) possession of a college or graduate degree in biological science, a college or graduate degree in resource management with experience that correlates with aptitude and interest for marine management, or both;

(D) proficient writing and speaking skills; and

(E) such other attributes as the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of the Interior, considers appropriate.

#### (d) Matching requirement ####

#### (1) In general ####

Except as provided in paragraph (2), the non-Federal share of the costs of a fellowship under this section shall be 25 percent of such costs.

#### (2) Waiver of matching requirement ####

The Secretary may waive the application of paragraph (1) to a fellowship if the Secretary finds that such waiver is necessary to support a project that the Secretary has identified as a high priority.

(Pub. L. 117–263, div. J, title C, §10031, Dec. 23, 2022, 136 Stat. 3955.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

This division, referred to in subsec. (a)(4) to (6), is div. J of Pub. L. 117–263, Dec. 23, 2022, 136 Stat. 3930. For complete classification of div. J to the Code, see Tables.

### **CHAPTER 84—HEALTHY FOREST RESTORATION** ###

Sec.
6501.Purposes.
6502.Definitions.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—HAZARDOUS FUEL REDUCTION ON FEDERAL LAND ####

6511.Definitions.
6512.Authorized hazardous fuel reduction projects.
6513.Prioritization.
6514.Environmental analysis.
6515.Special administrative review process.
6516.Judicial review in United States district courts.
6517.Effect of subchapter.
6518.Authorization of appropriations.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—BIOMASS ####

6531.Repealed.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—WATERSHED FORESTRY ASSISTANCE ####

6541.Omitted.
6542.Water Source Protection Program.
6543.Watershed Condition Framework.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—INSECT INFESTATIONS AND RELATED DISEASES ####

6551.Findings and purpose.
6552.Definitions.
6553.Accelerated information gathering regarding forest-damaging insects.
6554.Applied silvicultural assessments.
6555.Relation to other laws.
6556.Termination of effectiveness.
#### SUBCHAPTER V—HEALTHY FORESTS RESERVE PROGRAM ####

6571.Establishment of healthy forests reserve program.
6572.Eligibility and enrollment of lands in program.
6573.Restoration plans.
6574.Financial assistance.
6575.Technical assistance.
6576.Protections and measures.
6577.Involvement by other agencies and organizations.
6578.Funding.
#### SUBCHAPTER VI—MISCELLANEOUS ####

6591.Forest stands inventory and monitoring program to improve detection of and response to environmental threats.
6591a.Designation of treatment areas.
6591b.Administrative review.
6591c.Stewardship end result contracting projects.
6591d.Wildfire resilience projects.
6591e.Categorical exclusion for greater sage-grouse and mule deer habitat.
6592.Wildfire risk reduction.
6592a.Ecosystem restoration.
6592b.Establishment of fuel breaks in forests and other wildland vegetation.
6592c.Emergency actions.
6592d.Joint Chiefs Landscape Restoration Partnership program.

