
### §1330. Revocation of an order of confirmation ###

§1330. Revocation of an order of confirmation

(a) On request of a party in interest at any time within 180 days after the date of the entry of an order of confirmation under section 1325 of this title, and after notice and a hearing, the court may revoke such order if such order was procured by fraud.

(b) If the court revokes an order of confirmation under subsection (a) of this section, the court shall dispose of the case under section 1307 of this title, unless, within the time fixed by the court, the debtor proposes and the court confirms a modification of the plan under section 1329 of this title.

(Pub. L. 95–598, Nov. 6, 1978, 92 Stat. 2651.)

#### Historical and Revision Notes ####

#### legislative statements ####

Section 1331 of the House bill and Senate amendment is deleted in the House amendment.

Special tax provision: Section 1331 of title 11 of the House bill and the comparable provisions in sections 1322 and 1327(d) of the Senate amendment, pertaining to assessment and collection of taxes in wage earner plans, are deleted, and the governing rule is placed in section 505(c) of the House amendment. The provisions of both bills allowing assessment and collection of taxes after confirmation of the wage-earner plan are modified to allow assessment and collection after the court fixes the fact and amount of a tax liability, including administrative period taxes, regardless of whether this occurs before or after confirmation of the plan. The provision of the House bill limiting the collection of taxes to those assessed before one year after the filing of the petition is eliminated, thereby leaving the period of limitations on assessment of these nondischargeable tax liabilities the usual period provided by the Internal Revenue Code [Title 26].

#### senate report no. 95–989 ####

The court may revoke an order of confirmation procured by fraud, after notice and hearing, on application of a party in interest filed within 180 days after the entry of the order. Thereafter, unless a modified plan is confirmed, the court is to convert or dismiss the chapter 13 case as provided in section 1307.

### **CHAPTER 15—ANCILLARY AND OTHER CROSS-BORDER CASES** ###

Sec.
1501.Purpose and scope of application.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ####

1502.Definitions.
1503.International obligations of the United States.
1504.Commencement of ancillary case.
1505.Authorization to act in a foreign country.
1506.Public policy exception.
1507.Additional assistance.
1508.Interpretation.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—ACCESS OF FOREIGN REPRESENTATIVES AND CREDITORS TO THE COURT ####

1509.Right of direct access.
1510.Limited jurisdiction.
1511.Commencement of case under section 301 or 303.[1](#CHAPTER15_1_target)
1512.Participation of a foreign representative in a case under this title.
1513.Access of foreign creditors to a case under this title.
1514.Notification to foreign creditors concerning a case under this title.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—RECOGNITION OF A FOREIGN PROCEEDING AND RELIEF ####

1515.Application for recognition.
1516.Presumptions concerning recognition.
1517.Order granting recognition.
1518.Subsequent information.
1519.Relief that may be granted upon filing petition for recognition.
1520.Effects of recognition of a foreign main proceeding.
1521.Relief that may be granted upon recognition.
1522.Protection of creditors and other interested persons.
1523.Actions to avoid acts detrimental to creditors.
1524.Intervention by a foreign representative.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—COOPERATION WITH FOREIGN COURTS AND FOREIGN REPRESENTATIVES ####

1525.Cooperation and direct communication between the court and foreign courts or foreign representatives.
1526.Cooperation and direct communication between the trustee and foreign courts or foreign representatives.
1527.Forms of cooperation.
#### SUBCHAPTER V—CONCURRENT PROCEEDINGS ####

1528.Commencement of a case under this title after recognition of a foreign main proceeding.
1529.Coordination of a case under this title and a foreign proceeding.
1530.Coordination of more than 1 foreign proceeding.
1531.Presumption of insolvency based on recognition of a foreign main proceeding.
1532.Rule of payment in concurrent proceedings.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Prior Provisions ####

A prior chapter 15, consisting of sections 1501 to 151326, related to a pilot program for a United States trustee system, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 99–554, title II, §231, Oct. 27, 1986, 100 Stat. 3103.

[1 So in original. Section catchline amended by Pub. L. 111–327 without corresponding amendment of chapter analysis.](#CHAPTER15_1)

