
### §9255. Authority to consolidate reports ###

§9255. Authority to consolidate reports

Any and all reports required to be submitted to appropriate congressional committees under this chapter or any amendment made by this Act that are subject to a deadline for submission consisting of the same unit of time may be consolidated into a single report that is submitted to appropriate congressional committees pursuant to such deadline. The consolidated reports must contain all information required under this chapter or any amendment made by this Act, in addition to all other elements mandated by previous law.

(Pub. L. 114–122, title IV, §405, Feb. 18, 2016, 130 Stat. 116.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original "this Act", meaning Pub. L. 114–122, Feb. 18, 2016, 130 Stat. 93, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 9201 of this title and Tables.

Any amendment made by this Act, referred to in text, means the amendments made by Pub. L. 114–122. See Short Title note set out under section 9201 of this title and Tables.

### SUBCHAPTER V—AUTHORITIES AND REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO EXPANDED SANCTIONS ###

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

This subchapter was enacted as part of the Otto Warmbier North Korea Nuclear Sanctions and Enforcement Act of 2019, and also as part of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020, and not as part of the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2016 which comprises this chapter.

