
### §41508. Grants to States for threat assessment databases ###

§41508. Grants to States for threat assessment databases

#### (a) In general ####

The Attorney General, through the Office of Justice Programs, shall make grants under this section to the highest State courts in States participating in the program, for the purpose of enabling such courts to establish and maintain a threat assessment database described in subsection (b).

#### (b) Database ####

For purposes of subsection (a), a threat assessment database is a database through which a State can—

(1) analyze trends and patterns in domestic terrorism and crime;

(2) project the probabilities that specific acts of domestic terrorism or crime will occur; and

(3) develop measures and procedures that can effectively reduce the probabilities that those acts will occur.

#### (c) Core elements ####

The Attorney General shall define a core set of data elements to be used by each database funded by this section so that the information in the database can be effectively shared with other States and with the Department of Justice.

#### (d) Authorization of appropriations ####

There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $15,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2008 through 2011.

(Pub. L. 110–177, title III, §303, Jan. 7, 2008, 121 Stat. 2540.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

Section was formerly classified to section 3714a of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

## Subtitle V—Law Enforcement and Criminal Justice Personnel ##

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Support for Mental Health Providers ####

Pub. L. 115–113, §3, Jan. 10, 2018, 131 Stat. 2276, provided that: "The Attorney General, in coordination with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, shall develop resources to educate mental health providers about the culture of Federal, State, tribal, and local law enforcement agencies and evidence-based therapies for mental health issues common to Federal, State, local, and tribal law enforcement officers."

#### Support for Officers ####

Pub. L. 115–113, §4, Jan. 10, 2018, 131 Stat. 2277, provided that: "The Attorney General shall—

"(1) in consultation with Federal, State, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies—

"(A) identify and review the effectiveness of any existing crisis hotlines for law enforcement officers;

"(B) provide recommendations to Congress on whether Federal support for existing crisis hotlines or the creation of an alternative hotline would improve the effectiveness or use of the hotline; and

"(C) conduct research into the efficacy of an annual mental health check for law enforcement officers;

"(2) in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security and the head of other Federal agencies that employ law enforcement officers, examine the mental health and wellness needs of Federal law enforcement officers, including the efficacy of expanding peer mentoring programs for law enforcement officers at each Federal agency;

"(3) ensure that any recommendations, resources, or programs provided under this Act [see Short Title of 2018 Amendment note set out under section 10101 of this title] protect the privacy of participating law enforcement officers; and

"(4) not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act [Jan. 10, 2018], submit a report to Congress containing findings from the review and research under paragraphs (1) and (2), and final recommendations based upon those findings."

#### **Executive Documents** ####

#### Ex. Ord. No. 13774. Preventing Violence Against Federal, State, Tribal, and Local Law Enforcement Officers ####

Ex. Ord. No. 13774, Feb. 9, 2017, 82 F.R. 10695, provided:

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. *Policy*. It shall be the policy of the executive branch to:

(a) enforce all Federal laws in order to enhance the protection and safety of Federal, State, tribal, and local law enforcement officers, and thereby all Americans;

(b) develop strategies, in a process led by the Department of Justice (Department) and within the boundaries of the Constitution and existing Federal laws, to further enhance the protection and safety of Federal, State, tribal, and local law enforcement officers; and

(c) pursue appropriate legislation, consistent with the Constitution's regime of limited and enumerated Federal powers, that will define new Federal crimes, and increase penalties for existing Federal crimes, in order to prevent violence against Federal, State, tribal, and local law enforcement officers.

Sec. 2. *Implementation*. In furtherance of the policy set forth in section 1 of this order, the Attorney General shall:

(a) develop a strategy for the Department's use of existing Federal laws to prosecute individuals who commit or attempt to commit crimes of violence against Federal, State, tribal, and local law enforcement officers;

(b) coordinate with State, tribal, and local governments, and with law enforcement agencies at all levels, including other Federal agencies, in prosecuting crimes of violence against Federal, State, tribal, and local law enforcement officers in order to advance adequate multi-jurisdiction prosecution efforts;

(c) review existing Federal laws to determine whether those laws are adequate to address the protection and safety of Federal, State, tribal, and local law enforcement officers;

(d) following that review, and in coordination with other Federal agencies, as appropriate, make recommendations to the President for legislation to address the protection and safety of Federal, State, tribal, and local law enforcement officers, including, if warranted, legislation defining new crimes of violence and establishing new mandatory minimum sentences for existing crimes of violence against Federal, State, tribal, and local law enforcement officers, as well as for related crimes;

(e) coordinate with other Federal agencies to develop an executive branch strategy to prevent violence against Federal, State, tribal, and local law enforcement officers;

(f) thoroughly evaluate all grant funding programs currently administered by the Department to determine the extent to which its grant funding supports and protects Federal, State, tribal, and local law enforcement officers; and

(g) recommend to the President any changes to grant funding, based on the evaluation required by subsection (f) of this section, including recommendations for legislation, as appropriate, to adequately support and protect Federal, State, tribal, and local law enforcement officers.

Sec. 3. *General Provisions*. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

Donald J. Trump.

#### Executive Order No. 13929 ####

Ex. Ord. No. 13929, June 16, 2020, 85 F.R. 37325, which related to law enforcement agency independent credentialing bodies, a Federal database concerning instances of excessive use of force related to law enforcement matters, policing of individuals who suffer from impaired mental health, homelessness, or addiction, and legislation to improve law enforcement practices and build community engagement, was revoked by Ex. Ord. No. 14074, §22(b), May 25, 2022, 87 F.R. 32962, set out in a note preceding section 10101 of this title.

### **CHAPTER 501—EMERGENCY FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT ASSISTANCE** ###

Sec.
50101.Application for assistance.
50102.Definitions.
50103.Limitation on authority.
50104.Prohibition of discrimination.
50105.Confidentiality of information.
50106.Prohibition of land acquisition.
50107.Repayment.
50108.Recordkeeping requirement.
50109.Bureau of Justice Assistance.
50110.Limitation on civil justice matters.
50111.Issuance of rules.
50112.Authorization of appropriations.

