
### §741. Disposition of documents stored at Capitol ###

§741. Disposition of documents stored at Capitol

The Secretary and Sergeant at Arms of the Senate and the Clerk and Doorkeeper of the House of Representatives, at the convening in regular session of each successive Congress shall cause an invoice to be made of public documents stored in and about the Capitol, other than those belonging to the quota of Members of Congress, to the Library of Congress and the Senate and House libraries and document rooms. The superintendents of the Senate Service Department and House of Representatives Publications Distribution Service shall put the documents to the credit of Senators and Representatives in quantities equal in the number of volumes and as nearly as possible in value, to each Member of Congress, and the documents shall be distributed upon the orders of Senators and Representatives, each of whom shall be supplied by the superintendents of the Senate Service Department and House of Representatives Publications Distribution Service with a list of the number and character of the publications thus put to his credit, but before apportionment is made copies of any of these documents desired for the use of a committee of either House shall be delivered to the chairman of the committee.

Four copies of leather-bound documents shall be reserved and carefully stored, to be used in supplying deficiencies in the Senate and House libraries caused by wear or loss.

(Pub. L. 90–620, Oct. 22, 1968, 82 Stat. 1255.)

#### Historical and Revision Notes ####

Based on 44 U.S. Code, 1964 ed., §167 (Jan. 12, 1895, ch. 23, §63, 28 Stat. 611; July 2, 1954, ch. 455, title I, §101, 68 Stat. 397).

"Senate Service Department and House Folding Room" was substituted for "Senate and House folding rooms," and "superintendents of the Senate Service Department and House Folding Room" was substituted for "superintendents of the folding rooms" in view of act July 2, 1954, which redesignated the Senate Folding Room as the Senate Service Department.

Act July 2, 1954, provided in part that "hereafter" the Senate Folding Room should be known as the Senate Service Department.

"House of Representatives Publications Distribution Service" is substituted for "House Folding Room" because of the change of name under authority of Public Law 88–652.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Abolition of Office of Doorkeeper ####

Office of Doorkeeper of House of Representatives abolished and functions transferred generally to Sergeant-at-Arms of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Fourth Congress, Jan. 4, 1995.

### **CHAPTER 9—CONGRESSIONAL RECORD** ###

Sec.
901.Congressional Record: arrangement, style, contents, and indexes.
902.Congressional Record: indexes.[1](#CHAPTER9_1_target)
903.Congressional Record: daily and permanent forms.
904.Congressional Record: maps; diagrams; illustrations.
905.Congressional Record: additional insertions.
906.Congressional Record: gratuitous copies; delivery.
907.Congressional Record: extracts for Members of Congress; mailing envelopes.
908.Congressional Record: payment for printing extracts or other documents.
909.Congressional Record: exchange for Parliamentary Hansard.
910.Congressional Record: subscriptions; sale of current, individual numbers, and bound sets; postage rate.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**1974**—Pub. L. 93–314, §1(c), June 8, 1974, 88 Stat. 239, struck out "; subscription" in item 906, and substituted "subscriptions; sale of current, individual numbers and bound sets; postage rate" for "sale of current numbers and bound sets" in item 910.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Federal Records Management Provisions Without Effect on Chapter ####

Authority and responsibilities under chapter not limited or repealed by Federal Records Management Amendments of 1976, see section 5(b) of Pub. L. 94–575, set out as a note under section 2901 of this title.

[1 Section catchline amended by Pub. L. 108–102 without corresponding amendment of analysis.](#CHAPTER9_1)

