
### §6212. Authority to receive reimbursement ###

§6212. Authority to receive reimbursement

The Attorney General and the Commission are authorized to receive from a foreign antitrust authority, or from the foreign state or regional economic integration organization represented by such foreign antitrust authority, reimbursement for the costs incurred by the Attorney General or the Commission, respectively, in conducting an investigation under section 6202 of this title requested by such foreign antitrust authority, applying for an order under section 6203 of this title to assist such foreign antitrust authority, or providing antitrust evidence to such foreign antitrust authority under an antitrust mutual assistance agreement in effect under this chapter with respect to such foreign antitrust authority.

(Pub. L. 103–438, §13, Nov. 2, 1994, 108 Stat. 4605.)

### **CHAPTER 89—PROFESSIONAL BOXING SAFETY** ###

Sec.
6301.Definitions.
6302.Purposes.
6303.Boxing matches in States without boxing commissions.
6304.Safety standards.
6305.Registration.
6306.Review.
6307.Reporting.
6307a.Contract requirements.
6307b.Protection from coercive contracts.
6307c.Sanctioning organizations.
6307d.Required disclosures to State boxing commissions by sanctioning organizations.
6307e.Required disclosures for promoters.
6307f.Required disclosures for judges and referees.
6307g.Confidentiality.
6307h.Judges and referees.
6308.Conflicts of interest.
6309.Enforcement.
6310.Notification of supervising boxing commission.
6311.Studies.
6312.Professional boxing matches conducted on Indian reservations.
6313.Relationship with State law.

