
### §328. Rules and regulations ###

§328. Rules and regulations

The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to prescribe any necessary regulations for the purpose of administering the provisions of sections 323 to 328 of this title.

(Feb. 5, 1948, ch. 45, §6, 62 Stat. 18.)

#### **Executive Documents** ####

#### Transfer of Functions ####

Enforcement functions of Secretary or other official in Department of the Interior relating to compliance with rights-of-way across Indian lands, issued under section 321 et seq. of this title with respect to pre-construction, construction, and initial operation of transportation system for Canadian and Alaskan natural gas transferred to Federal Inspector, Office of Federal Inspector for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System, until first anniversary of date of initial operation of Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System, see Reorg. Plan No. 1 of 1979, §§102(e), 203(a), 44 F.R. 33663, 33666, 93 Stat. 1373, 1376, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, effective July 1, 1979, pursuant to Ex. Ord. No. 12142, §1–101, June 21, 1979, 44 F.R. 36927, set out as a note under section 719e of Title 15, Commerce and Trade. Office of Federal Inspector for the Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System abolished and functions and authority vested in Inspector transferred to Secretary of Energy by section 3012(b) of Pub. L. 102–486, set out as an Abolition of Office of Federal Inspector note under section 719e of Title 15. Functions and authority vested in Secretary of Energy subsequently transferred to Federal Coordinator for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation Projects by section 720d(f) of Title 15.

### **CHAPTER 9—ALLOTMENT OF INDIAN LANDS** ###

Sec.
331 to 333. Repealed.
334.Allotments to Indians not residing on reservations.
335.Extension of provisions as to allotments.
336.Allotments to Indians making settlement.
337.Allotments in national forests.
337a, 338.Repealed.
339.Tribes excepted from certain provisions.
340.Extension of certain provisions.
341.Power to grant rights-of-way not affected.
342.Removal of Southern Utes to new reservation.
343.Correction of errors in allotments and patents.
344.Cancellation of allotment of unsuitable land.
344a.Repealed.
345.Actions for allotments.
346.Proceedings in actions for allotments.
347.Limitations of actions for lands patented in severalty under treaties.
348.Patents to be held in trust; descent and partition.
348a.Extension of trust period for Indians of Klamath River Reservation.
349.Patents in fee to allottees.
350.Surrender of patent, and selection of other land.
351.Patents with restrictions for lots in villages in Washington.
352.Cancellation of trust patents within power or reservoir sites.
352a.Cancellation of patents in fee simple for allotments held in trust.
352b.Partial cancellation; issuance of new trust patents.
352c.Reimbursement of allottees or heirs for taxes paid on lands patented in fee before end of trust.
353.Sections inapplicable to certain tribes.
354.Lands not liable for debts prior to final patent.
355.Laws applicable to lands of full-blooded members of Five Civilized Tribes.
356.Allowance of undisputed claims of restricted allottees of Five Civilized Tribes.
357.Condemnation of lands under laws of States.
358.Repeal of statutory provisions relating to survey, classification, and allotments which provide for repayment out of Indian moneys.

