
### §8575. Definitions ###

§8575. Definitions

In this subchapter:

#### (1) Appropriate congressional committees ####

The term "appropriate congressional committees" means—

(A) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on the Judiciary, and the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives; and

(B) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on the Judiciary, and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate.

#### (2) Covered family member ####

The term "covered family member", with respect to a foreign person who is an individual, means a spouse, adult child, parent, or sibling of the person who engages in the sanctionable activity described under section 8572 of this title or who demonstrably benefits from such activity.

(Pub. L. 118–50, div. J, §6, Apr. 24, 2024, 138 Stat. 969.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

Section was enacted as part of the Stop Harboring Iranian Petroleum Act, also known as the SHIP Act, and not as part of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 which comprises this chapter.

### **CHAPTER 93—UNITED STATES-ISRAEL COOPERATION** ###

Sec.
8601.Findings.
8602.Statement of policy.
8603.United States actions to assist in the defense of Israel and protect United States interests.
8604.Reports required.
8605.Definitions.
8606.United States-Israel cooperation on energy, water, homeland security, agriculture, and alternative fuel technologies.
8607.Other matters of cooperation.

