
### §1511. International agreements excluded from provisions of chapter ###

§1511. International agreements excluded from provisions of chapter

This chapter does not apply to treaties, conventions, protocols, and other international agreements, or proclamations thereof by the President.

(Pub. L. 90–620, Oct. 22, 1968, 82 Stat. 1278.)

#### Historical and Revision Notes ####

Based on 44 U.S. Code, 1964 ed., §312 (July 26, 1935, ch. 417, §12, 49 Stat. 503).

### **CHAPTER 17—DISTRIBUTION AND SALE OF PUBLIC DOCUMENTS** ###

Sec.
1701.Publications for public distribution to be distributed by the Director of the Government Publishing Office; mailing lists.
1702.Superintendent of Documents; sale of documents.
1703.Superintendent of Documents: assistants, blanks, printing and binding.
1704.Superintendent of Documents: pay of employees for night, Sunday, holiday, and overtime work.
1705.Printing additional copies for sale to public; regulations.
1706.Printing and sale of extra copies of documents.
1707.Reprinting of documents required for sale.
1708.Prices for sales copies of publications; crediting of receipts; resale by dealers; sales agents.
1709.Blank forms: printing and sale to public.
1710.Index of documents: number and distribution.
1711.Catalog of Government publications.
1712.Documents for use of the Director of the Government Publishing Office.
1713.Documents to be delivered to the Executive Mansion.
1714.Publications for use of General Services Administration.[1](#CHAPTER17_1_target)
1715.Publications for department or officer or for congressional committees.
1716.Public documents for legations and consulates of United States.
1717.Documents and reports for foreign legations.
1718.Distribution of Government publications to the Library of Congress.
1719.International exchange of Government publications.
1720.Documents not needed by departments to be turned over to Superintendent of Documents.
1721.Exchange of documents by heads of departments.
1722.Departmental distribution of publications.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2014**—Pub. L. 113–235, div. H, title I, §1301(c)(1), Dec. 16, 2014, 128 Stat. 2537, substituted "Director of the Government Publishing Office" for "Public Printer" in items 1701 and 1712.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Federal Records Management Provisions Without Effect on Chapter ####

Authority and responsibilities under chapter not limited or repealed by Federal Records Management Amendments of 1976, see section 5(b) of Pub. L. 94–575, set out as a note under section 2901 of this title.

[1 Section catchline amended by Pub. L. 98–497 without corresponding amendment of chapter analysis.](#CHAPTER17_1)

