
### §2319. Critical skill training bonus ###

§2319. Critical skill training bonus

(a) The Secretary may provide a bonus, not to exceed $20,000, to an enlisted member who completes training in a skill designated as critical, if at least four years of obligated active service remain on the member's enlistment at the time the training is completed. A bonus under this section may be paid in a single lump sum or in periodic installments.

(b) If an enlisted member voluntarily or because of misconduct does not complete the member's term of obligated active service, the Secretary may require the member to repay the United States, on a pro rata basis, all sums paid under this section. The Secretary may charge interest on the amount repaid at a rate, to be determined quarterly, equal to 150 percent of the average of the yields on the 91-day Treasury bills auctioned during the calendar quarter preceding the date on which the amount to be repaid is determined.

(Added Pub. L. 108–293, title II, §204(a), Aug. 9, 2004, 118 Stat. 1032, §374; renumbered §2319, Pub. L. 115–282, title I, §113(b), Dec. 4, 2018, 132 Stat. 4221.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–282 renumbered section 374 of this title as this section.

### **CHAPTER 25—PERSONNEL; GENERAL PROVISIONS** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ####

Sec.
2501.Grade on retirement.
2502.Retirement.
2503.Status of recalled personnel.
2504.Computation of retired pay.
2505.Limitations on retirement and retired pay.
2506.Suspension of payment of retired pay of members who are absent from the United States to avoid prosecution.
2507.Board for Correction of Military Records deadline.
2508.Emergency leave retention authority.
2509.Prohibition of certain involuntary administrative separations.
2510.Sea service letters.
2511.Investigations of flag officers and Senior Executive Service employees.
2512.Leave policies for the Coast Guard.
2513.Computation of length of service.
2514.Career flexibility to enhance retention of members.
2515.Calculation of active service.
2516.Members asserting post-traumatic stress disorder or traumatic brain injury.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—ADVISORY BOARD ON WOMEN IN THE COAST GUARD ####

2521.Advisory Board on Women in the Coast Guard.
#### [SUBCHAPTER III—REPEALED] ####

[2531 to 2534.Repealed.]

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Prior Provisions ####

A prior analysis for chapter 25 "GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR COAST GUARD RESERVE AND AUXILIARY" consisted of items 891 "Flags; pennants; uniforms and insignia", 892 "Penalty", 893 "Limitation on rights of members of the Auxiliary and temporary members of the Reserve", and 894 "Availability of facilities and appropriations", prior to repeal by Pub. L. 115–282, title I, §114(a), Dec. 4, 2018, 132 Stat. 4223.

#### Amendments ####

**2022**—Pub. L. 117–263, div. K, title CXIV, §11410(b), title CXVIII, §11808(a)(18), Dec. 23, 2022, 136 Stat. 4117, 4166, added item 2516 and struck out item for subchapter III "LIGHTHOUSE SERVICE" and items 2531 "Personnel of former Lighthouse Service", 2532 "Retirement of employees", 2533 "Surviving spouses", and 2534 "Application for benefits".

Pub. L. 117–263, div. K, title CXII, §11242(b), Dec. 23, 2022, 136 Stat. 4040, which directed amendment of the analysis for this chapter by adding item 2515 "after the item relating to section 2515", was executed by adding item 2515 after item 2514 to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

**2021**—Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXII [LXXXII], §§8204(b), 8215(c)(3), title LVXXXV [LXXXV], §§8510(c), 8511(c), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4648, 4652, 4758, 4759, added item 2514, substituted "ADVISORY BOARD ON WOMEN IN THE COAST GUARD" for "LIGHTHOUSE SERVICE" in item for subchapter II and added item 2521, inserted item for subchapter III before item 2531, and added items 2532 to 2534. Item 2514 was added to the analysis for this chapter to reflect the probable intent of Congress, notwithstanding directory language adding that item to the analysis for subchapter I of this chapter.

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–282, title I, §114(a), Dec. 4, 2018, 132 Stat. 4223, inserted chapter 25 designation and heading and added items 2501 to 2531.

### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ###

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–282, title I, §114(c)(1), Dec. 4, 2018, 132 Stat. 4224, inserted subchapter I designation and heading.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Physical Disability Evaluation System Procedure Review ####

Pub. L. 117–263, div. K, title CXII, §11243, Dec. 23, 2022, 136 Stat. 4040, provided that:

"(a) Study.—

"(1) In general.—Not later than 3 years after the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 23, 2022], the Comptroller General of the United States shall complete a study on the Coast Guard Physical Disability Evaluation System and medical retirement procedures.

"(2) Elements.—In completing the study required under paragraph (1), the Comptroller General shall review, and provide recommendations to address, the following:

"(A) Coast Guard compliance with all applicable laws, regulations, and policies relating to the Physical Disability Evaluation System and the Medical Evaluation Board.

"(B) Coast Guard compliance with timelines set forth in—

"(i) the instruction of the Commandant [of the Coast Guard] entitled 'Physical Disability Evaluation System' issued on May 19, 2006 (COMDTNST M1850.2D); and

"(ii) the Physical Disability Evaluation System Transparency Initiative (ALCGPSC 030/20).

"(C) An evaluation of Coast Guard processes in place to ensure the availability, consistency, and effectiveness of counsel appointed by the Coast Guard Office of the Judge Advocate General to represent members of the Coast Guard undergoing an evaluation under the Physical Disability Evaluation System.

"(D) The extent to which the Coast Guard has and uses processes to ensure that such counsel may perform the functions of such counsel in a manner that is impartial, including being able to perform such functions without undue pressure or interference by the command of the affected member of the Coast Guard, the Personnel Service Center, and the Coast Guard Office of the Judge Advocate General.

"(E) The frequency, including the frequency aggregated by member pay grade, with which members of the Coast Guard seek private counsel in lieu of counsel appointed by the Coast Guard Office of the Judge Advocate General.

"(F) The timeliness of determinations, guidance, and access to medical evaluations necessary for retirement or rating determinations and overall well-being of the affected member of the Coast Guard.

"(G) The guidance, formal or otherwise, provided by the Personnel Service Center and the Coast Guard Office of the Judge Advocate General, other than the counsel directly representing affected members of the Coast Guard, in communication with medical personnel examining members.

"(H) The guidance, formal or otherwise, provided by the medical professionals reviewing cases within the Physical Disability Evaluation System to affected members of the Coast Guard, and the extent to which such guidance is disclosed to the commanders, commanding officers, or other members of the Coast Guard in the chain of command of such affected members.

"(I) The feasibility of establishing a program to allow members of the Coast Guard to select an expedited review to ensure completion of the Medical Evaluation Board report not later than 180 days after the date on which such review was initiated.

"(b) Report.—The Comptroller General shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a report on the findings of the study conducted under subsection (a) and recommendations for improving the Physical Disability Evaluation System process.

"(c) Updated Policy Guidance.—

"(1) In general.—Not later than 180 days after the date on which the report under subsection (b) is submitted, the Commandant shall issue updated policy guidance in response to the findings and recommendations contained in the report.

"(2) Elements.—The updated policy guidance required under paragraph (1) shall include the following:

"(A) A requirement that a member of the Coast Guard, or the counsel of such a member, shall be informed of the contents of, and afforded the option to be present for, any communication between the member's command and the Personnel Service Center, or other Coast Guard entity, with respect to the duty status of the member.

"(B) An exception to the requirement described in subparagraph (A) that such a member, or the counsel of the member, is not required to be informed of the contents of such a communication if it is demonstrated that there is a legitimate health or safety need for the member to be excluded from such communications, supported by a medical opinion that such exclusion is necessary for the health or safety of the member, command, or any other individual.

"(C) An option to allow a member of the Coast Guard to initiate an evaluation by a Medical Evaluation Board if a Coast Guard healthcare provider, or other military healthcare provider, has raised a concern about the ability of the member to continue serving in the Coast Guard, in accordance with existing medical and physical disability policy.

"(D) An updated policy to remove the command endorsement requirement for retirement or separation unless absolutely necessary for the benefit of the United States."

#### Policy on Requests for Permanent Changes of Station or Unit Transfers by Persons Who Report Being the Victim of Sexual Assault ####

Pub. L. 117–263, div. K, title CXII, §11273, Dec. 23, 2022, 136 Stat. 4068, provided that:

"(a) Interim Update.—Not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 23, 2022], the Commandant [of the Coast Guard], in consultation with the Director of the Health, Safety, and Work Life Directorate, shall issue an interim update to Coast Guard policy guidance to allow a member of the Coast Guard who has reported being the victim of a sexual assault, or any other offense covered by section 920, 920c, or 930 of title 10, United States Code (article 120, 120c, or 130 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), to request an immediate change of station or an immediate unit transfer.

"(b) Final Policy.—The Commandant shall issue a final policy based on the interim updates issued under the preceding sentence not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act."

#### Sex Offenses and Personnel Records ####

Pub. L. 117–263, div. K, title CXII, §11274, Dec. 23, 2022, 136 Stat. 4068, provided that:

"Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 23, 2022], the Commandant [of the Coast Guard] shall issue final regulations or policy guidance required to fully implement section 1745 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113–66; 10 U.S.C. 1561 note) with respect to members of the Coast Guard."

#### Improvements to Physical Disability Evaluation System and Transition Program ####

Pub. L. 117–263, div. K, title CXIV, §11411, Dec. 23, 2022, 136 Stat. 4117, provided that:

"(a) Temporary Policy.—Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 23, 2022], the Commandant [of the Coast Guard] shall develop a temporary policy that—

"(1) improves timeliness, communication, and outcomes for members of the Coast Guard undergoing the Physical Disability Evaluation System, or a related formal or informal process;

"(2) affords maximum career transition benefits to members of the Coast Guard determined by a Medical Evaluation Board to be unfit for retention in the Coast Guard; and

"(3) maximizes the potential separation and career transition benefits for members of the Coast Guard undergoing the Physical Disability Evaluation System, or a related formal or informal process.

"(b) Elements.—The policy required under subsection (a) shall include the following:

"(1) A requirement that any member of the Coast Guard who is undergoing the Physical Disability Evaluation System, or a related formal or informal process, shall be placed in a duty status that allows the member the opportunity to attend necessary medical appointments and other activities relating to the Physical Disability Evaluation System, including completion of any application of the Department of Veterans Affairs and career transition planning.

"(2) In the case of a Medical Evaluation Board report that is not completed not later than 120 days after the date on which an evaluation by the Medical Evaluation Board was initiated, the option for such a member to enter permissive duty status.

"(3) A requirement that the date of initiation of an evaluation by a Medical Evaluation Board shall include the date on which any verbal or written affirmation is made to the member, command, or medical staff that the evaluation by the Medical Evaluation Board has been initiated.

"(4) An option for such member to seek an internship under the SkillBridge program established under section 1143(e) of title 10, United States Code, and outside employment aimed at improving the transition of the member to civilian life, only if such an internship or employment does not interfere with necessary medical appointments required for the member's physical disability evaluation.

"(5) A requirement that not less than 21 days notice shall be provided to such a member for any such medical appointment, to the maximum extent practicable, to ensure that the appointment timeline is in the best interests of the immediate health of the member.

"(6) A requirement that the Coast Guard shall provide such a member with a written separation date upon the completion of a Medical Evaluation Board report that finds the member unfit to continue active duty.

"(7) To provide certainty to such a member with respect to a separation date, a policy that ensures—

"(A) that accountability measures are in place with respect to Coast Guard delays throughout the Physical Disability Evaluation System, including—

"(i) placement of the member in an excess leave status after 270 days have elapsed since the date of initiation of an evaluation by a Medical Evaluation Board by any competent authority; and

"(ii) a calculation of the costs to retain the member on active duty, including the pay, allowances, and other associated benefits of the member, for the period beginning on the date that is 90 days after the date of initiation of an evaluation by a Medical Evaluation Board by any competent authority and ending on the date on which the member is separated from the Coast Guard; and

"(B) the availability of administrative solutions to any such delay.

"(8) With respect to a member of the Coast Guard on temporary limited duty status, an option to remain in the member's current billet, to the maximum extent practicable, or to be transferred to a different active-duty billet, so as to minimize any negative impact on the member's career trajectory.

"(9) A requirement that each respective command shall report to the Coast Guard Personnel Service Center any delay of more than 21 days between each stage of the Physical Disability Evaluation System for any such member, including between stages of the processes, the Medical Evaluation Board, the Informal Physical Evaluation Board, and the Formal Physical Evaluation Board.

"(10) A requirement that, not later than 7 days after receipt of a report of a delay described in paragraph (9), the Personnel Service Center shall take corrective action, which shall ensure that the Coast Guard exercises maximum discretion to continue the Physical Disability Evaluation System of such a member in a timely manner, unless such delay is caused by the member.

"(11) A requirement that—

"(A) a member of the Coast Guard shall be allowed to make a request for a reasonable delay in the Physical Disability Evaluation System to obtain additional input and consultation from a medical or legal professional; and

"(B) any such request for delay shall be approved by the Commandant based on a showing of good cause by the member.

"(c) Report on Temporary Policy.—Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 23, 2022], the Commandant shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a copy of the policy developed under subsection (a).

"(d) Permanent Policy.—Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall publish a Commandant Instruction making the policy developed under subsection (a) a permanent policy of the Coast Guard.

"(e) Briefing.—Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall provide to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a briefing on, and a copy of, the permanent policy.

"(f) Annual Report on Costs.—

"(1) In general.—Not less frequently than annually, the Commandant shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a report that, for the preceding fiscal year—

"(A) details the total aggregate service-wide costs described in subsection (b)(7)(A)(ii) for members of the Coast Guard whose Physical Disability Evaluation System process has exceeded 90 days; and

"(B) includes for each such member—

"(i) an accounting of such costs; and

"(ii) the number of days that elapsed between the initiation and completion of the Physical Disability Evaluation System process.

"(2) Personally identifiable information.—A report under paragraph (1) shall not include the personally identifiable information of any member of the Coast Guard."

