
### §101340. Use of funds ###

§101340. Use of funds

(a) Expenditure Shall Follow Priority Listing.—Expenditure of any funds authorized and appropriated for new construction, repair, or rehabilitation of housing under this chapter shall follow the housing priority listing established by the Secretary under section 101339 of this title, in sequential order, to the maximum extent practicable.

(b) Nonconstruction Funds in Annual Budget Submittal.—Each fiscal year the President's proposed budget to Congress shall include identification of nonconstruction funds to be spent for Service housing maintenance and operations that are in addition to rental receipts collected.

(Pub. L. 113–287, §3, Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3129.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 101340(a) | 16 U.S.C. 17*o*(13). | Pub. L. 104–333, div. I, title VIII, §814(a)(13), Nov. 12, 1996, 110 Stat. 4193; Pub. L. 106–176, title I, §120(a)(1)(E), Mar. 10, 2000, 114 Stat. 28. |
| 101340(b) | 16 U.S.C. 17*o*(14). | Pub. L. 104–333, div. I, title VIII, §814(a)(14), Nov. 12, 1996, 110 Stat. 4193. |

In subsection (a), the word "Secretary" is substituted for "agency" to correct an error in the source provision because the provision only applies to the Service and the Secretary develops the priority listing.

In subsection (b), the words "for the first fiscal year after November 12, 1996, and . . . subsequent" are omitted as obsolete.

### **CHAPTER 1015—TRANSPORTATION** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—AIRPORTS ####

Sec.
101501.Airports in or near System units.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—ROADS AND TRAILS ####

101511.Authority of Secretary.
101512.Conveyance to States of roads leading to certain historical areas.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION PROGRAMS FOR SYSTEM UNITS ####

101521.Transportation service and facility programs.
101522.Transportation projects.
101523.Procedures applicable to transportation plans and projects.
101524.Special rule for service contract to provide transportation services.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—FEES ####

101531.Fee for use of transportation services.

### SUBCHAPTER I—AIRPORTS ###

