
### §5513. Proposal for consideration by International Civil Aviation Organization ###

§5513. Proposal for consideration by International Civil Aviation Organization

Not later than 60 days after November 16, 1990, the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of Transportation, shall propose to the International Civil Aviation Organization the establishment of a comprehensive aviation security program which shall include (1) training for airport security personnel, (2) grants for security equipment acquisition for certain nations, and (3) expansion of the appropriate utilization of canine teams in the detection of explosive devices in all airport areas, including use in passenger screening areas and nonpublic baggage assembly and processing areas.

(Pub. L. 101–604, title II, §215, Nov. 16, 1990, 104 Stat. 3087.)

### **CHAPTER 65—CONTROL AND ELIMINATION OF CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS** ###

Sec.
5601.Purposes.
5602.Multilateral efforts.
5603.United States export controls.
5604.Determinations regarding use of chemical or biological weapons.
5605.Sanctions against use of chemical or biological weapons.
5606.Repealed.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Prior Provisions ####

A prior chapter 65, enacted by Pub. L. 102–138, title V, Oct. 28, 1991, 105 Stat. 722, contained provisions substantially identical to those enacted by Pub. L. 102–182, title III, Dec. 4, 1991, 105 Stat. 1245, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 102–182, title III, §309(a), Dec. 4, 1991, 105 Stat. 1258.

