
### §1646. Derivative eligibility for benefits ###

§1646. Derivative eligibility for benefits

Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an alien who under the provisions of this chapter is ineligible for benefits under the food stamp program (as defined in section 1612(a)(3)(B) of this title) shall not be eligible for such benefits because the alien receives benefits under the supplemental security income program (as defined in section 1612(a)(3)(A) of this title).

(Pub. L. 104–193, title IV, §436, as added Pub. L. 105–33, title V, §5305(a), Aug. 5, 1997, 111 Stat. 601.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original "this title" meaning title IV of Pub. L. 104–193, Aug. 22, 1996, 110 Stat. 2260, which enacted this chapter, section 1183a of this title, and sections 611a and 1437y of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, amended section 1383 of this title, sections 32 and 6213 of Title 26, Internal Revenue Code, and sections 1436a and 1471 of Title 42, and enacted provisions set out as notes under section 1183a of this title and section 32 of Title 26. For complete classification of title IV to the Code, see Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Change of Name ####

References to the food stamp program established under the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 considered to refer to the supplemental nutrition assistance program established under that Act, see section 4002(c) of Pub. L. 110–246, set out as a note under section 2012 of Title 7, Agriculture.

#### Effective Date ####

Section effective, except as otherwise provided, as if included in the enactment of title IV of the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996, Pub. L. 104–193, see section 5308 of Pub. L. 105–33, set out as an Effective Date of 1997 Amendment note under section 1612 of this title.

### **CHAPTER 15—ENHANCED BORDER SECURITY AND VISA ENTRY REFORM** ###

Sec.
1701.Definitions.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—FUNDING ####

1711.Authorization of appropriations for hiring and training Government personnel.
1712.Authorization of appropriations for improvements in technology and infrastructure.
1713.Machine-readable visa fees.
1714.Surcharges related to consular services.
1715.Consular and Border Security Programs.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—INTERAGENCY INFORMATION SHARING ####

1721.Interim measures for access to and coordination of law enforcement and other information.
1722.Interoperable law enforcement and intelligence data system with name-matching capacity and training.
1723.Commission on Interoperable Data Sharing.
1724.Personnel management authorities for positions involved in the development and implementation of the interoperable electronic data system ("Chimera system").
#### SUBCHAPTER III—VISA ISSUANCE ####

1731.Implementation of an integrated entry and exit data system.
1732.Machine-readable, tamper-resistant entry and exit documents.
1733.Terrorist lookout committees.
1734.Improved training for consular officers.
1735.Restriction on issuance of visas to nonimmigrants from countries that are state sponsors of international terrorism.
1736.Check of lookout databases.
1737.Tracking system for stolen passports.
1738.Identification documents for certain newly admitted aliens.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—INSPECTION AND ADMISSION OF ALIENS ####

1751.Study of the feasibility of a North American National Security Program.
1752.Staffing levels at ports of entry.
1752a.Model ports-of-entry.
1753.Joint United States-Canada projects for alternative inspections services.
#### SUBCHAPTER V—FOREIGN STUDENTS AND EXCHANGE VISITORS ####

1761.Foreign student monitoring program.
1762.Review of institutions and other entities authorized to enroll or sponsor certain nonimmigrants.
#### SUBCHAPTER VI—MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS ####

1771.General Accounting Office study.
1772.International cooperation.
1773.Statutory construction.
1774.Annual report on aliens who fail to appear after release on own recognizance.
1775.Retention of nonimmigrant visa applications by the Department of State.
1776.Training program.
1777.Establishment of Human Smuggling and Trafficking Center.
1778.Vulnerability and threat assessment.

