
### §3030g–23. Nutrition services impact study ###

§3030g–23. Nutrition services impact study

#### (a) Study ####

#### (1) In general ####

The Assistant Secretary shall perform a study to assess how to measure and evaluate the discrepancy between available services and the demand for such services in the home delivered nutrition services program and the congregate nutrition services program under this part, which shall include assessing various methods (such as those that States use) to measure and evaluate the discrepancy (such as measurement through the length of waitlists).

#### (2) Contents ####

In performing the study, the Assistant Secretary shall—

(A) consider means of obtaining information in rural and underserved communities; and

(B) consider using existing tools (existing as of the date the Assistant Secretary begins the study) such as the tools developed through the Performance Outcome Measurement Project.

#### (3) Analysis ####

The Assistant Secretary shall analyze and determine which methods are the least burdensome and most effective for measuring and evaluating the discrepancy described in paragraph (1).

#### (b) Recommendations ####

#### (1) Preparation ####

Not later than 3 years after March 25, 2020, the Assistant Secretary shall prepare recommendations—

(A) on how to measure and evaluate, with the least burden and the most effectiveness, the discrepancy described in subsection (a)(1) (such as measurement through the length of waitlists); and

(B) about whether studies similar to the study described in subsection (a) should be carried out for programs carried out under this chapter, other than this part.

#### (2) Issuance ####

The Assistant Secretary shall issue the recommendations, and make the recommendations available as a notification pursuant to section 3012(a)(34) of this title and to the committees of the Senate and of the House of Representatives with jurisdiction over this chapter, and the Special Committee on Aging of the Senate.

(Pub. L. 89–73, title III, §339B, as added Pub. L. 116–131, title II, §216, Mar. 25, 2020, 134 Stat. 259.)

### Part D—Evidence-Based Disease Prevention and Health Promotion Services ###

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

Pub. L. 114–144, §4(j)(1), Apr. 19, 2016, 130 Stat. 340, inserted "Evidence-Based" before "Disease" in part heading.

Pub. L. 106–501, title III, §314(2), Nov. 13, 2000, 114 Stat. 2253, redesignated part F of this subchapter as part D.

#### Prior Provisions ####

A prior part D, consisting of sections 3030h to 3030k of this title, related to in-home services for frail older individuals, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 106–501, title III, §314(1), Nov. 13, 2000, 114 Stat. 2253. See prior provisions notes under section 3030g–22 of this title.

