
### §522. Monopolies or restraints of trade; service of complaint by Secretary of Commerce; hearing; order to cease and desist; jurisdiction of district court ###

§522. Monopolies or restraints of trade; service of complaint by Secretary of Commerce; hearing; order to cease and desist; jurisdiction of district court

If the Secretary of Commerce shall have reason to believe that any such association monopolizes or restrains trade in interstate or foreign commerce to such an extent that the price of any aquatic product is unduly enhanced by reason thereof, he shall serve upon such association a complaint stating his charge in that respect, to which complaint shall be attached, or contained therein, a notice of hearing, specifying a day and place not less than thirty days after the service thereof, requiring the association to show cause why an order should not be made directing it to cease and desist from monopolization or restraint of trade. An association so complained of may at the time and place so fixed show cause why such order should not be entered. The evidence given on such a hearing shall be taken under such rules and regulations as the Secretary of Commerce may prescribe, reduced to writing, and made a part of the record therein. If upon such hearing the Secretary of Commerce shall be of the opinion that such association monopolizes or restrains trade in interstate or foreign commerce to such an extent that the price of any aquatic product is unduly enhanced thereby, he shall issue and cause to be served upon the association an order reciting the facts found by him, directing such association to cease and desist from monopolization or restraint of trade. On the request of such association or if such association fails or neglects for thirty days to obey such order, the Secretary of Commerce shall file in the district court in the judicial district in which such association has its principal place of business a certified copy of the order and of all the records in the proceedings, together with a petition asking that the order be enforced, and shall give notice to the Attorney General and to said association of such filing. Such district court shall thereupon have jurisdiction to enter a decree affirming, modifying, or setting aside said order, or enter such other decree as the court may deem equitable, and may make rules as to pleadings and proceedings to be had in considering such order. The place of trial may, for cause or by consent of parties, be changed as in other causes.

The facts found by the Secretary of Commerce and recited or set forth in said order shall be prima facie evidence of such facts, but either party may adduce additional evidence. The Department of Justice shall have charge of the enforcement of such order. After the order is so filed in such district court and while pending for review therein, the court may issue a temporary writ of injunction forbidding such association from violating such order or any part thereof. The court shall, upon conclusion of its hearing, enforce its decree by a permanent injunction or other appropriate remedy. Service of such complaint and of all notices may be made upon such association by service upon any officer, or agent thereof, engaged in carrying on its business, or on any attorney authorized to appear in such proceeding for such association and such service shall be binding upon such association, the officers and members thereof.

(June 25, 1934, ch. 742, §2, 48 Stat. 1214; 1939 Reorg. Plan No. II, §4(e), eff. July 1, 1939, 4 F.R. 2731, 53 Stat. 1431; 1970 Reorg. Plan No. 4, eff. Oct. 3, 1970, 35 F.R. 15627, 84 Stat. 2090.)

#### **Executive Documents** ####

#### Transfer of Functions ####

"Secretary of Commerce" substituted in text for "Secretary of the Interior" in view of: creation of National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in Department of Commerce and Office of Administrator of such Administration; abolition of Bureau of Commercial Fisheries in Department of the Interior and Office of Director of such Bureau; transfers of functions, including functions formerly vested by law in Secretary of the Interior or Department of the Interior which were administered through Bureau of Commercial Fisheries or were primarily related to such Bureau, exclusive of certain enumerated functions with respect to Great Lakes fishery research, Missouri River Reservoir research, Gulf Breeze Biological Laboratory, and Trans-Alaska pipeline investigations; and transfer of marine sport fish program of Bureau of Sport Fisheries and Wildlife by Reorg. Plan No. 4 of 1970, eff. Oct. 3, 1970, 35 F.R. 15627, 84 Stat. 2090, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

Functions of Secretary of Commerce under this section transferred to Secretary of the Interior by Reorg. Plan No. II of 1939, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, which transferred Bureau of Fisheries from Department of Commerce to Department of the Interior.

### **CHAPTER 14—RECONSTRUCTION FINANCE CORPORATION** ###

Sec.
601 to 619. Repealed, Omitted, or Transferred.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Short Title of Act July 30, 1953, Ch. 282, Title I ####

Act July 30, 1953, ch. 282, title I, §101, 67 Stat. 230, provided that: "This title [amending sections 603 and 604 of this title and section 459 of Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works, enacting provisions set out as a note under this section, and amending provisions set out as notes under sections 98, 544, and 4534 of Title 50, War and National Defense, and sections 1929 and 2261 of the former Appendix to Title 50] may be cited as the 'Reconstruction Finance Corporation Liquidation Act'."

#### Continuation of Pending Proceedings ####

Act July 30, 1953, ch. 282, title I, §105, 67 Stat. 231, as amended by act June 29, 1954, ch. 410, §2(c), 68 Stat. 320, provided that: "No suit, action, or other proceeding lawfully commenced by or against the Reconstruction Finance Corporation shall abate by reason of the dissolution of the Corporation; but the court may, on motion or supplemental petition filed at any time within twelve months after the date of such dissolution and showing a necessity for a survival of such suit, action, or other proceeding to obtain a settlement of the questions involved, allow the same to be maintained by or against the officer or agency of the Government performing the functions with respect to which any such suit, action, or other proceeding was commenced."

#### Extension or Renewal of Loans ####

Pub. L. 85–536, §4, July 18, 1958, 72 Stat. 396, provided that: "The Secretary of the Treasury is hereby authorized to further extend the maturity of or renew any loan transferred to the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 1 of 1957 [set out as a note above], for additional periods not to exceed ten years, if such extension or renewal will aid in the orderly liquidation of such loan."

#### **Executive Documents** ####

#### Abolition of Reconstruction Finance Corporation ####

Reconstruction Finance Corporation was abolished and remaining functions transferred to Housing and Home Finance Agency, Administrator of General Services, Administrator of Small Business Administration, and Secretary of Commerce, such transfer including assets and liabilities, administrative property, personnel, funds, and records, pursuant to 1957 Reorg. Plan No. 1, eff. June 30, 1957, 22 F.R. 4633, 71 Stat. 647, set out in Appendix II of title 5, Government Organization and Employees. The Plan provided for retirement of capital stock and payment of all unused funds into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts and required a final report by Secretary of Treasury not later than June 30, 1959. Powers of the Corporation relating to loans and advances were terminated at close of business on sixtieth day after July 30, 1953, through amendment of former section 604(f) of this title by act July 30, 1953, ch. 282, title I, §102(b), 67 Stat. 230. Consequential liquidation of assets, winding up of affairs, and dissolution of the Corporation and cancellation and retirement of its capital stock were required under former section 608 of this title. Former section 609 of this title required such liquidation, winding up of affairs, and dissolution by Secretary of Treasury where such action had been initiated but not completed by close of business on June 30, 1954.

#### **REORGANIZATION PLAN NO. 1 OF 1957** ####

#### Eff. June 30, 1957, 22 F.R. 4633, 71 Stat. 647 ####

Prepared by the President and transmitted to the Senate and the House of Representatives in Congress assembled, April 29, 1957, pursuant to the provisions of the Reorganization Act of 1949, approved June 20, 1949, as amended [see 5 U.S.C. 901 et seq.].

#### ABOLITION OF THE RECONSTRUCTION FINANCE CORPORATION ####

#### Section 1. Definitions ####

As used in this reorganization plan:

(a) The term "Corporation" means the Reconstruction Finance Corporation.

(b) The term "remaining functions" means (1) all functions of the Corporation, (2) except as otherwise provided in subsections (b) and (c) of section 6 of this reorganization plan, all functions of the Secretary of the Treasury under section 10 of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation Act, as amended (15 U.S.C. 609), and (3) all functions of the Secretary of the Treasury under sections 102 and 106(b) of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation Liquidation Act (67 Stat. 230, 231), as amended [section 603 and section 609 note of this title].

(c) The term "transferees" means the Housing and Home Finance Administrator, the Administrator of General Services, the Administrator of the Small Business Administration, and the Secretary of the Treasury.

#### Sec. 2. Transfer of Functions ####

(a) There are hereby transferred to the Housing and Home Finance Administrator the remaining functions with respect to or arising out of (1) the securities and obligations of, loans made to, and contracts or other agreements with, States, municipalities, political subdivisions thereof, public agencies, boards, commissions or other public bodies, and (2) loans, securities and obligations acquired in connection with programs of financial assistance for drainage and irrigation projects.

(b) There are hereby transferred to the Administrator of General Services the remaining functions with respect to or arising out of (1) the affairs of the Smaller War Plants Corporation which were transferred to the Corporation pursuant to Executive Order No. 9665 of December 27, 1945 (11 F.R. 3) and section 207 of Public Law 132—80th Congress 61 Stat. 209), (2) the national defense, war and reconversion activities with respect to which notes of the Corporation were cancelled pursuant to the provisions of Title II of Public Law 860—80th Congress (62 Stat. 1187), and (3) activities of the RFC Price Adjustment Board and the functions transferred to the Corporation by Executive Order No. 9841 of April 23, 1947 (12 F.R. 2645).

(c) Except as otherwise provided in sections 2(d)(1) and 2(d)(2) of this reorganization plan (relating to financial assistance to railroads, etc., and to Schedule A hereto annexed), there are hereby transferred to the Administrator of the Small Business Administration the remaining functions with respect to or arising out of programs of financial assistance to business enterprises and to victims of floods or other disasters.

(d) There are hereby transferred to the Secretary of the Treasury all functions of the Corporation not otherwise transferred by the provisions of this reorganization plan, including, but not limited to, all functions of the Corporation with respect to or arising out of (1) programs of financial assistance to railroad companies, financial institutions, and insurance companies, (2) the obligations and loans listed in Schedule A hereto annexed, and (3) the War Damage Corporation.

(e) The foregoing transfers include the transfer to each transferee, for use in executing his respective functions thereunder, of the powers, authority, rights, and immunities now vested in or available or applicable to the Corporation for carrying out the functions transferred to the transferee under this reorganization plan.

#### Sec. 3. Transfer of Assets and Liabilities ####

The loans, obligations, securities, capital stock, and other assets pertaining to the functions transferred by section 2 of this reorganization plan (including accrued interest thereon, and property acquired in connection therewith) and the liabilities, contracts, bonds, mortgages, notes and other instruments relating thereto are hereby transferred from the Corporation to the respective transferees: *Provided, however*, That all assets, liabilities, and commitments relating to the functions, transferred by section 2 (a) of this reorganization plan are hereby transferred to the Revolving Fund (Liquidating Programs) established by the Independent Offices Appropriation Act, 1955 (68 Stat. 295) [12 U.S.C. 1701g–5].

#### Sec. 4. Administrative Property, Personnel, Funds and Records ####

In addition to the transfers made by the provisions of section 3 of this reorganization plan, there shall be transferred to the Housing and Home Finance Agency, General Services Administration, Small Business Administration, and Treasury Department so much as the Director of the Bureau of the Budget shall determine to be appropriate by reason of transfers made by sections 2 and 3 of this reorganization plan of the administrative property, personnel, records, liabilities and commitments of the Corporation or of the Office of Production and Defense Lending in the Department of the Treasury and of the authorizations, allocations, and funds available or to be made available with respect to the transferred functions (including, but in no way limiting the generality of the foregoing, the authority to issue notes or other obligations to the Secretary of the Treasury, which may be purchased by the Secretary, under section 7 of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation Act, as amended (15 U.S.C. 606), and the duty of making payments on such notes or obligations issued by or transferred to the respective transferee hereunder). In allocating the administrative expense funds applicable to the functions transferred by the provisions of this reorganization plan and said Director shall allocate and transfer to the General Services Administration as a payment on behalf of the Housing and Home Finance Agency, General Services Administration, Small Business Administration and Treasury Department such sum for rent of building space for the carrying out of the transferred functions during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1958, as the said Director shall determine. Such further measures and disposition as the Director of the Bureau of the Budget shall determine to be necessary in order to effectuate the transfers provided for in this section shall be carried out in such manner and by such agencies as the Director shall direct.

#### Sec. 5. Delegation of Authority ####

Each transferee may from time to time make such provisions as he shall deem appropriate authorizing the performance by any officer, employee, agency, or administrative unit under his jurisdiction of any function transferred to him by the provisions of this reorganization plan.

#### Sec. 6. Abolition of the Corporation ####

(a) The Corporation is hereby abolished.

(b) The Secretary of the Treasury shall retire the capital stock of the Corporation and, subject to the provisions of section 4 hereof, shall pay into the Treasury, as miscellaneous receipts, all unused funds of the Corporation.

(c) Not later than June 30, 1959, the Secretary of the Treasury shall transmit a report to the Congress, which report (1) shall cover the affairs of the Corporation up to the time of the taking effect of the provisions of this reorganization plan, and (2) shall correspond to the final report required by section 10 of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation Act, as amended (15 U.S.C. 609). The function of making the final report provided for in the said section 10 is hereby abolished.

#### Sec. 7. Effective Date ####

The provisions of this reorganization plan shall take effect at the time determined under the provisions of section 6(a) of the Reorganization Act of 1949, as amended [see 5 U.S.C. 906(a)] or at the close of June 30, 1957, whichever is later.

#### Schedule A ####

This schedule annexed to Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1957 lists by name and address of the obligor or borrower the obligations and loans referred to in clause (2) of section 2(d) of such reorganization plan:

 
| *Name of obligor or borrower* | *Address* |
| Alaska Plywood Corp | Juneau, Alaska. |
| Alford Refrigerated Warehouse | Dallas, Tex. |
| Braun Bros. Packing Co | Troy, Ohio. |
| Chromcraft Corp | St. Louis, Mo. |
| Civic Hotel Corp | Odessa, Tex. |
| Deep Water Terminals, Inc | Brooklyn, N.Y. |
| Detroit Steel Corp | Detroit, Mich. |
| Hal Roach Studios, Inc | Culver City, Calif. |
| Hayward Woolen Co | Whitinsville, Mass. |
| The Horle Arms Co | Deep River, Conn. |
| Jack Tar of Arkansas, Inc | Hot Springs, Ark. |
| Landers Packing Co | Denver, Colo. |
| Langley Corp | San Diego, Calif. |
| Lawton Community Hotel | Lawton, Okla. |
| Lone Star Steel Co | Dallas, Tex. |
| Louisville Builders Supply Co | Louisville, Ky. |
| Lustron Corp | Columbus, Ohio. |
| Mayfair Extension, Inc | Washington, D.C. |
| New Haven Clock & Watch Co | New Haven, Conn. |
| Oregon Fibre Products, Inc | Pilot Rock, Oreg. |
| The Prudence Co., Inc | New York, N.Y. |
| Seidelhuber Steel Rolling Mills | Seattle, Wash. |
| South Water Building Corp | Rockford, Ill. |
| South Water Machinery Corp | Do. |
| Texas Consolidated Oils | Dallas, Tex. |
| Texas Frozen Foods Corp | Harlingen, Tex. |
| Waltham Watch Co | Waltham, Mass. |
| Wheland Co | Chattanooga, Tenn. |

