
### §300z–10. Restrictions ###

§300z–10. Restrictions

(a) Grants or payments may be made only to programs or projects which do not provide abortions or abortion counseling or referral, or which do not subcontract with or make any payment to any person who provides abortions or abortion counseling or referral, except that any such program or project may provide referral for abortion counseling to a pregnant adolescent if such adolescent and the parents or guardians of such adolescent request such referral; and grants may be made only to projects or programs which do not advocate, promote, or encourage abortion.

(b) The Secretary shall ascertain whether programs or projects comply with subsection (a) and take appropriate action if programs or projects do not comply with such subsection, including withholding of funds.

(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title XX, §2011, as added Pub. L. 97–35, title IX, §955(a), Aug. 13, 1981, 95 Stat. 592.)

### SUBCHAPTER XIX—VACCINES ###

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Prior Provisions ####

A prior subchapter XIX (§300aa et seq.), comprised of title XXI of the Public Health Service Act, act July 1, 1944, ch. 373, §§2101 to 2116, was renumbered title XXIII, §§2301 to 2316, of the Public Health Service Act, and transferred to subchapter XXI (§300cc et seq.) of this chapter, renumbered title XXV, §§2501 to 2514, of the Public Health Service Act, and transferred to subchapter XXV (§300aaa et seq.) of this chapter, renumbered title XXVI, §§2601 to 2614, of the Public Health Service Act, renumbered title XXVII, §§2701 to 2714, of the Public Health Service Act, and renumbered title II, part B, §§231 to 244, of the Public Health Service Act, and transferred to part B (§238 et seq.) of subchapter I of this chapter.

### Part 1—National Vaccine Program ###

