
### §4595. Payment for unaccrued leave ###

§4595. Payment for unaccrued leave

#### (a) In general ####

The Financial Clerk of the Senate is authorized to accept from an individual whose pay is disbursed by the Secretary of [1](#4595_1_target) Senate a payment representing pay for any period of unaccrued annual leave used by that individual, as certified by the head of the employing office of the individual making the payment.

#### (b) Withholding ####

The Financial Clerk of the Senate is authorized to withhold the amount referred to in subsection (a) from any amount which is disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate and which is due to or on behalf of the individual described in subsection (a).

#### (c) Deposit ####

Any payment accepted under this section shall be deposited in the general fund of the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.

#### (d) "Head of the employing office" defined ####

As used in this section, the term "head of the employing office" means any person with the final authority to appoint, hire, discharge, and set the terms, conditions, or privileges of the employment of an individual whose pay is disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate.

#### (e) Applicability ####

This section shall apply to fiscal year 1996 and each fiscal year thereafter.

(Pub. L. 104–197, title I, §9, Sept. 16, 1996, 110 Stat. 2398.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

Section was formerly classified to section 60p of this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is from the Congressional Operations Appropriations Act, 1997, which is title I of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1997.

[1 So in original. Probably should be followed by "the".](#4595_1)

### **CHAPTER 47—CONGRESSIONAL ETHICS** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL ####

Sec.
4701.Subletting duties of employees of Senate or House.
4702.Notification of post-employment restrictions for Members of Congress and employees.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES ####

4711.Committee on Standards of Official Conduct of House of Representatives.
4712.Posting of travel and financial disclosure reports on public website of Clerk of the House of Representatives.
4713.Reporting payments made to witnesses before Committee on Standards of Official Conduct.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—SENATE ####

4721.Referral of ethics violations by Senate Ethics Committee to Government Accountability Office for investigation.
4722.Mandatory Senate ethics training for Members and staff.
4723.Annual report by Select Committee on Ethics.
4724.Amendment to Senate conflict of interest rule.
4725.Gifts and travel.
4726.Guidelines relating to restrictions on registered lobbyist participation in travel and disclosure.
4727.Senate privately paid travel public website.
4728.Notification of post-employment restrictions for Senators and employees.

### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL ###

