
### §303903. Preservation education and training program ###

§303903. Preservation education and training program

The Secretary, in consultation with the Council and other appropriate Federal, tribal, Native Hawaiian, and non-Federal organizations, shall develop and implement a comprehensive preservation education and training program. The program shall include—

(1) standards and increased preservation training opportunities for Federal workers involved in preservation-related functions;

(2) preservation training opportunities for other Federal, State, tribal and local government workers, and students;

(3) technical or financial assistance, or both, to historically black colleges and universities, to tribal colleges, and to colleges with a high enrollment of Native Americans or Native Hawaiians, to establish preservation training and degree programs; and

(4) where appropriate, coordination with the National Center for Preservation Technology and Training of—

(A) distribution of information on preservation technologies;

(B) provision of training and skill development in trades, crafts, and disciplines related to historic preservation in Federal training and development programs; and

(C) support for research, analysis, conservation, curation, interpretation, and display related to preservation.

(Pub. L. 113–287, §3, Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3208.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 303903 | 16 U.S.C. 470a(j). | Pub. L. 89–665, title I, §101(j), as added Pub. L. 102–575, title XL, §4008, Oct. 30, 1992, 106 Stat. 4758. |

In paragraph (1), the word "new" is omitted as unnecessary.

In paragraph (2), the word "increased" is omitted as unnecessary.

### Subdivision 3—Advisory Council on Historic Preservation ###

### **CHAPTER 3041—ADVISORY COUNCIL ON HISTORIC PRESERVATION** ###

Sec.
304101.Establishment; vacancies.
304102.Duties of Council.
304103.Cooperation between Council and instrumentalities of executive branch of Federal Government.
304104.Compensation of members of Council.
304105.Administration.
304106.International Centre for the Study of the Preservation and Restoration of Cultural Property.
304107.Transmittal of legislative recommendations, testimony, or comments to any officer or agency of the United States prior to submission to Congress.
304108.Regulations, procedures, and guidelines.
304109.Budget submission.
304110.Report by Secretary to Council.
304111.Reimbursements from State and local agencies.
304112.Effectiveness of Federal grant and assistance programs.

