
### §9009. Authorization of appropriations ###

§9009. Authorization of appropriations

(a) There is hereby authorized to be appropriated to carry out the purposes of this chapter the sum of $20,000,000 for operating expenses for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1981, in addition to any amounts authorized to be appropriated in the fiscal year 1981 Authorization Act pursuant to section 7270 of this title.

(b) There is hereby authorized to be appropriated to carry out the purposes of this chapter the sum of $60,000,000 for operating expenses for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1982.

(c) Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 1981 to carry out the purposes of section 9004 of this title for plant and capital equipment as follows:

Project 81–ES–1, ocean thermal energy conversion demonstration plants with a combined capacity of at least one hundred megawatts electrical or the energy product equivalent, sites to be determined, conceptual and preliminary design activities only $5,000,000.

(d) Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 1982 to carry out the purposes of section 9004 of this title for plant and capital equipment as follows:

Project 81–ES–1, ocean thermal energy conversion demonstration plants with a combined capacity of at least one hundred megawatts electrical or the energy product equivalent, sites to be determined, conceptual and preliminary design activities only $25,000,000.

(Pub. L. 96–310, §10, July 17, 1980, 94 Stat. 946.)

### **CHAPTER 99—OCEAN THERMAL ENERGY CONVERSION** ###

Sec.
9101.Congressional declaration of policy.
9102.Definitions.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—REGULATION OF OCEAN THERMAL ENERGY CONVERSION FACILITIES AND PLANTSHIPS ####

9111.License for ownership, construction, and operation of ocean thermal energy conversion facilities or plantships.
9112.Procedure.
9113.Protection of submarine electric transmission cables and equipment.
9114.Antitrust review.
9115.Adjacent coastal States.
9116.Diligence requirements.
9117.Protection of the environment.
9118.Marine environmental protection and safety of life and property at sea.
9119.Prevention of interference with other uses of high seas.
9120.Monitoring of licensees' activities.
9121.Suspension, revocation, and termination of licenses.
9122.Recordkeeping and public access to information.
9123.Relinquishment or surrender of license.
9124.Civil actions.
9125.Judicial review.
9126.Exempt operations.
9127.Periodic review and revision of regulations.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—MARITIME FINANCING FOR OCEAN THERMAL ENERGY CONVERSION ####

9141.Determinations under Merchant Marine Act, 1936.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—ENFORCEMENT ####

9151.Prohibited acts.
9152.Remedies and penalties.
9153.Enforcement.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS ####

9161.Law of the Sea Treaty.
9162.International negotiations.
9163.Relationship to other laws.
9164.Submarine electric transmission cable and equipment safety.
9165.Omitted.
9166.Authorization of appropriations.
9167.Severability.
9168.Report to Congress on promotion and enhancement of export potential of ocean thermal energy conversion components, facilities, and plantships.

