
### §613. Establishment of senior level positions ###

§613. Establishment of senior level positions

#### (a) In general ####

Notwithstanding the fourth sentence of section 601(b) of this title, the Director of the Congressional Budget Office may establish and fix the compensation of senior level positions in the Congressional Budget Office to meet critical scientific, technical, professional, or executive needs of the Office.

#### (b) Limitation on compensation ####

The annual rate of pay for any position established under this section may not exceed the annual rate of pay for level II of the Executive Schedule.

#### (c) Effective date ####

This section shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2017 and each succeeding fiscal year.

(Pub. L. 115–31, div. I, title I, §1101, May 5, 2017, 131 Stat. 578.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

Level II of the Executive Schedule, referred to in subsec. (b), is set out in section 5313 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

#### Codification ####

Section was enacted as part of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2017, which is div. I of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2017, and not as part of title II of the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974 which comprises this chapter.

### **CHAPTER 17A—CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET AND FISCAL OPERATIONS** ###

Sec.
621.Congressional declaration of purpose.
622.Definitions.
623.Continuing study of additional budget reform proposals.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET PROCESS ####

631.Timetable.
632.Annual adoption of concurrent resolution on the budget.
633.Committee allocations.
634.Concurrent resolution on the budget must be adopted before budget-related legislation is considered.
635.Permissible revisions of concurrent resolutions on the budget.
636.Provisions relating to consideration of concurrent resolutions on the budget.
637.Legislation dealing with Congressional budget must be handled by Budget Committees.
638.House Committee action on all appropriation bills to be completed by June 10.
639.Reports, summaries, and projections of Congressional budget actions.
640.House approval of regular appropriation bills.
641.Reconciliation.
642.Budget-related legislation must be within appropriate levels.
643.Determinations and points of order.
644.Extraneous matter in reconciliation legislation.
645.Adjustments.
645a.Effect of adoption of special order of business in House of Representatives.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—FISCAL PROCEDURES ####

#### Part A—General Provisions ####

651.Budget-related legislation not subject to appropriations.
652.Repealed.
653.Analysis by Congressional Budget Office.
654.Study by Government Accountability Office of forms of Federal financial commitment not reviewed annually by Congress.
655.Off-budget agencies, programs, and activities.
656.Member User Group.
#### Part B—Federal Mandates ####

658.Definitions.
658a.Exclusions.
658b.Duties of Congressional committees.
658c.Duties of Director; statements on bills and joint resolutions other than appropriations bills and joint resolutions.
658d.Legislation subject to point of order.
658e.Provisions relating to House of Representatives.
658f.Requests to Congressional Budget Office from Senators.
658g.Clarification of application.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—CREDIT REFORM ####

661.Purposes.
661a.Definitions.
661b.OMB and CBO analysis, coordination, and review.
661c.Budgetary treatment.
661d.Authorizations.
661e.Treatment of deposit insurance and agencies and other insurance programs.
661f.Effect on other laws.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—BUDGET AGREEMENT ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS ####

665 to 665e. Repealed.

