
### §1948. Marine safety curriculum ###

§1948. Marine safety curriculum

The Commandant shall ensure that professional courses of study in marine safety are provided at the Coast Guard Academy, and during other officer accession programs, to give Coast Guard cadets and other officer candidates a background and understanding of the marine safety program. These courses may include such topics as program history, vessel design and construction, vessel inspection, casualty investigation, and administrative law and regulations.

(Added Pub. L. 111–281, title V, §525(a), Oct. 15, 2010, 124 Stat. 2959, §200; renumbered §199 and amended Pub. L. 111–330, §1(7)(A), Dec. 22, 2010, 124 Stat. 3569; Pub. L. 115–232, div. C, title XXXV, §3531(c)(11), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 2320; renumbered §1948, Pub. L. 115–282, title I, §110(b), Dec. 4, 2018, 132 Stat. 4212.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–282 renumbered section 199 of this title as this section.

Pub. L. 115–232 substituted "Commandant" for "Commandant of the Coast Guard".

**2010**—Pub. L. 111–330 amended directory language of Pub. L. 111–281, §525(a), which enacted this section, and renumbered section 200 of this title as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date of 2010 Amendment ####

Pub. L. 111–330, §1, Dec. 22, 2010, 124 Stat. 3569, provided that the amendment made by section 1(7)(A) is effective with the enactment of Pub. L. 111–281.

### **CHAPTER 21—PERSONNEL; OFFICERS** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—APPOINTMENT AND PROMOTION ####

Sec.
2101.Original appointment of permanent commissioned officers.
2102.Active duty promotion list.
2103.Number and distribution of commissioned officers on active duty promotion list.
2104.Appointment of temporary officers.
2105.Rank of warrant officers.
2106.Selection boards; convening of boards.
2107.Selection boards; composition of boards.
2108.Selection boards; notice of convening; communication with board.
2109.Selection boards; oath of members.
2110.Number of officers to be selected for promotion.
2111.Promotion zones.
2112.Promotion year; defined.
2113.Eligibility of officers for consideration for promotion.
2114.United States Deputy Marshals in Alaska.
2115.Selection boards; information to be furnished boards.
2116.Officers to be recommended for promotion.
2117.Selection boards; reports.
2118.Selection boards; submission of reports.
2119.Failure of selection for promotion.
2120.Special selection boards; correction of errors.
2120a.Special selection review boards.
2121.Promotions; appointments.
2122.Removal of officer from list of selectees for promotion.
2123.Promotions; acceptance; oath of office.
2124.Promotions; pay and allowances.
2125.Wartime temporary service promotions.
2126.Promotion of officers not included on active duty promotion list.
2127.Recall to active duty during war or national emergency.
2128.Recall to active duty with consent of officer.
2129.Aviation cadets; appointment as Reserve officers.
2130.Promotion to certain grades for officers with critical skills: captain, commander, lieutenant commander, lieutenant.
2131.College student pre-commissioning initiative.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—DISCHARGES; RETIREMENTS; REVOCATION OF COMMISSIONS; SEPARATION FOR CAUSE ####

2141.Revocation of commissions during first five years of commissioned service.
2142.Regular lieutenants (junior grade); separation for failure of selection for promotion.
2143.Regular lieutenants; separation for failure of selection for promotion; continuation.
2144.Regular Coast Guard; officers serving under temporary appointments.
2145.Regular lieutenant commanders and commanders; retirement for failure of selection for promotion.
2146.Discharge in lieu of retirement; separation pay.
2147.Regular warrant officers: separation pay.
2148.Separation for failure of selection for promotion or continuation; time of.
2149.Regular captains; retirement.
2150.Captains; continuation on active duty; involuntary retirement.
2151.Rear admirals and rear admirals (lower half); continuation on active duty; involuntary retirement.
2152.Voluntary retirement after twenty years' service.
2153.Voluntary retirement after thirty years' service.
2154.Compulsory retirement.
2155.Retirement for physical disability after selection for promotion; grade in which retired.
2156.Deferment of retirement or separation for medical reasons.
2157.Flag officers.
2158.Review of records of officers.
2159.Boards of inquiry.
2160.Boards of review.
2161.Composition of boards.
2162.Rights and procedures.
2163.Removal of officer from active duty; action by Secretary.
2164.Officers considered for removal; retirement or discharge; separation benefits.
2165.Relief of retired officer promoted while on active duty.
2166.Continuation on active duty; Coast Guard officers with certain critical skills.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—GENERAL PROVISIONS ####

2181.Physical fitness of officers.
2182.Multirater assessment of certain personnel.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Prior Provisions ####

A prior analysis for chapter 21 "COAST GUARD RESERVE" consisted of items 701 "Organization", 702 "Authorized strength", 703 "Coast Guard Reserve Boards", 704 "Grades and ratings; military authority", 705 "Benefits", 706 "Temporary members of the Reserve; eligibility and compensation", 707 "Temporary members of the Reserve; disability or death benefits", 708 "Temporary members of the Reserve; certificate of honorable service", 709 "Reserve student aviation pilots; Reserve aviation pilots; appointments in commissioned grade", 709a "Reserve student pre-commissioning assistance program", 710 "Appointment or wartime promotion; retention of grade upon release from active duty", 711 "Exclusiveness of service", 712 "Active duty for emergency augmentation of regular forces", 713 "Enlistment of members engaged in schooling", 720 "Definitions", 721 "Applicability of this subchapter", 722 "Suspension of this subchapter in time of war or national emergency", 723 "Effect of this subchapter on retirement and retired pay", 724 "Authorized number of officers", 725 "Precedence", 726 "Running mates", 727 "Constructive credit upon initial appointment", 728 "Promotion of Reserve officers on active duty", 729 "Promotion; recommendations of selection boards", 730 "Selection boards; appointment", 731 "Establishment of promotion zones under running mate system", 732 "Eligibility for promotion", 733 "Recommendation for promotion of an officer previously removed from an active status", 734 "Qualifications for promotion", 735 "Promotion; acceptance; oath of office", 736 "Date of rank upon promotion; entitlement to pay", 737 "Type of promotion; temporary", 738 "Effect of removal by the President or failure of consent of the Senate", 739 "Failure of selection for promotion", 740 "Failure of selection and removal from an active status", 741 "Retention boards; removal from an active status to provide a flow of promotion", 742 "Maximum ages for retention in an active status", 743 "Rear admiral and rear admiral (lower half); maximum service in grade", 744 "Appointment of a former Navy or Coast Guard officer", 745 "Grade on entry upon active duty", and 746 "Recall of a retired officer; grade upon release", prior to repeal by Pub. L. 115–282, title I, §112(a), Dec. 4, 2018, 132 Stat. 4215.

#### Amendments ####

**2022**—Pub. L. 117–263, div. K, title CXII, §§11235(b), 11245(b)(2), Dec. 23, 2022, 136 Stat. 4035, 4045, added items 2120a and 2166.

**2021**—Pub. L. 116–283, div. G, title LVXXXII [LXXXII], §§8203(b), 8276(b), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4645, 4687, added items 2130 and 2131. Item 2130 was added at the end of the analysis for this chapter to reflect the probable intent of Congress, notwithstanding directory language adding that item "at the end" of the analysis for subchapter I of this chapter, and item 2131 was added after item 2130 at that location.

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–282, title I, §112(a), Dec. 4, 2018, 132 Stat. 4215, inserted chapter 21 designation and heading and added items 2101 to 2182.

### SUBCHAPTER I—APPOINTMENT AND PROMOTION ###

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Prior Provisions ####

A prior subchapter A of chapter 21 designation and accompanying heading "GENERAL" were repealed by Pub. L. 115–282, title I, §112(c)(1), Dec. 4, 2018, 132 Stat. 4220.

#### Amendments ####

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–282, title I, §112(c)(2), Dec. 4, 2018, 132 Stat. 4220, inserted subchapter I designation and heading.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Officer Evaluation Report ####

Pub. L. 115–282, title VIII, §803, Dec. 4, 2018, 132 Stat. 4299, provided that:

"(a) In General.—Not later than 3 years after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 4, 2018], the Commandant of the Coast Guard shall reduce lieutenant junior grade evaluation reports to the same length as an ensign or place lieutenant junior grade evaluations on an annual schedule.

"(b) Surveys.—Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Commandant of the Coast Guard shall conduct surveys of—

"(1) outgoing promotion board members and assignment officers to determine, at a minimum—

"(A) which sections of the officer evaluation report were most useful;

"(B) which sections of the officer evaluation report were least useful;

"(C) how to better reflect high performers; and

"(D) any recommendations for improving the officer evaluation report; and

"(2) at least 10 percent of the officers from each grade of officers from O1 to O6 to determine how much time each member of the rating chain spends on that member's portion of the officer evaluation report.

"(c) Revisions.—

"(1) In general.—Not later than 4 years after the date of the completion of the surveys required by subsection (b), the Commandant of the Coast Guard shall revise the officer evaluation report, and provide corresponding directions, taking into account the requirements under paragraph (2).

"(2) Requirements.—In revising the officer evaluation report under paragraph (1), the Commandant shall—

"(A) consider the findings of the surveys under subsection (b);

"(B) improve administrative efficiency;

"(C) reduce and streamline performance dimensions and narrative text;

"(D) eliminate redundancy with the officer specialty management system and any other record information systems that are used during the officer assignment or promotion process;

"(E) provide for fairness and equity for Coast Guard officers with regard to promotion boards, selection panels, and the assignment process; and

"(F) ensure officer evaluation responsibilities can be accomplished within normal working hours—

"(i) to minimize any impact to officer duties; and

"(ii) to eliminate any need for an officer to take liberty or leave for administrative purposes.

"(d) Report.—

"(1) In general.—Not later than 545 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 4, 2018], the Commandant of the Coast Guard shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a report on the findings of the surveys under subsection (b).

"(2) Format.—The report under paragraph (1) shall be formatted by each rank, type of board, and position, as applicable."

