
### §20145. Elimination of barriers ###

§20145. Elimination of barriers

#### (a) Minors ####

A Federal agency may not require a survivor of human trafficking who is less than 18 years of age or a homeless youth to obtain the consent or signature of the parent or guardian of the survivor or homeless youth to receive a copy of a Government-issued identity card issued to the survivor or homeless youth.

#### (b) Fees ####

A Federal agency may not charge a survivor of human trafficking or a homeless youth a fee to obtain a copy of a Government-issued identity card issued to the survivor or homeless youth.

(Pub. L. 117–347, title IV, §402, Jan. 5, 2023, 136 Stat. 6208.)

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Definitions ####

Pub. L. 117–347, §3, Jan. 5, 2023, 136 Stat. 6199, provided that: "In this Act [see section 1 of Pub. L. 117–347, set out as a Short Title of 2023 Amendment note under section 10101 of this title]:

"(1) Computer.—The term 'computer' includes a computer network and any interactive electronic device.

"(2) Cybercrime against individuals.—The term 'cybercrime against individuals' has the meaning given that term in section 1401(a) [of the] Violence Against Women Act Reauthorization Act of 2022 (34 U.S.C. 30107(a)).

"(3) Homeless youth.—The term 'homeless youth' has the meaning given the term 'homeless children and youths' in section 725 of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11434a)."

### **CHAPTER 203—VICTIMS OF CHILD ABUSE** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—IMPROVING INVESTIGATION AND PROSECUTION OF CHILD ABUSE CASES ####

Sec.
20301.Findings.
20302.Definitions.
20303.Regional children's advocacy centers.
20304.Local children's advocacy centers.
20305.Grants for specialized technical assistance and training programs.
20306.Authorization of appropriations.
20307.Accountability.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—COURT-APPOINTED SPECIAL ADVOCATE PROGRAM ####

20321.Findings.
20322.Purpose.
20323.Strengthening of court-appointed special advocate program.
20324.Authorization of appropriations.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—CHILD ABUSE TRAINING PROGRAMS FOR JUDICIAL PERSONNEL AND PRACTITIONERS ####

20331.Findings and purpose.
20332.Grants for juvenile and family court personnel.
20333.Specialized technical assistance and training programs.
20334.Authorization of appropriations.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—REPORTING REQUIREMENTS ####

20341.Child abuse reporting.
20342.Federal immunity.
#### SUBCHAPTER V—CHILD CARE WORKER EMPLOYEE BACKGROUND CHECKS ####

20351.Requirement for background checks.

### SUBCHAPTER I—IMPROVING INVESTIGATION AND PROSECUTION OF CHILD ABUSE CASES ###

