
### §2000gg–6. Severability ###

§2000gg–6. Severability

If any provision of this chapter or the application of that provision to particular persons or circumstances is held invalid or found to be unconstitutional, the remainder of this chapter and the application of that provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected.

(Pub. L. 117–328, div. II, §108, Dec. 29, 2022, 136 Stat. 6089.)

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date ####

Section effective 180 days after Dec. 29, 2022, see section 109 of div. II of Pub. L. 117–328, set out as a note under section 2000gg of this title.

### **CHAPTER 22—INDIAN HOSPITALS AND HEALTH FACILITIES** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION ####

Sec.
2001.Hospitals and health facilities transferred to Public Health Service; restriction on closing hospitals.
2002.Transfer of hospitals and facilities to State or private institutions; conditions and restrictions; failure to meet requirements.
2003.Regulations.
2004.Transfer of personnel, property, records, monies.
2004a.Sanitation facilities.
2004b.Implementation of education, hospital and health facility, etc., contracts and grants by Public Health Service personnel; request for detail of personnel.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—CONSTRUCTION OF HEALTH FACILITIES AND COMMUNITY HOSPITALS ####

2005.Financial assistance by Surgeon General.
2005a.Amount of assistance; determination of costs.
2005b.Conditions of assistance.
2005c.Payments.
2005d.Eligibility of assisted project for aid under other acts; excluded costs.
2005e.Definitions.
2005f.Supervision or control of assisted hospitals.

### SUBCHAPTER I—MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION ###

