
### §366. Utility service ###

§366. Utility service

(a) Except as provided in subsections (b) and (c) of this section, a utility may not alter, refuse, or discontinue service to, or discriminate against, the trustee or the debtor solely on the basis of the commencement of a case under this title or that a debt owed by the debtor to such utility for service rendered before the order for relief was not paid when due.

(b) Such utility may alter, refuse, or discontinue service if neither the trustee nor the debtor, within 20 days after the date of the order for relief, furnishes adequate assurance of payment, in the form of a deposit or other security, for service after such date. On request of a party in interest and after notice and a hearing, the court may order reasonable modification of the amount of the deposit or other security necessary to provide adequate assurance of payment.

(c)(1)(A) For purposes of this subsection, the term "assurance of payment" means—

(i) a cash deposit;

(ii) a letter of credit;

(iii) a certificate of deposit;

(iv) a surety bond;

(v) a prepayment of utility consumption; or

(vi) another form of security that is mutually agreed on between the utility and the debtor or the trustee.

(B) For purposes of this subsection an administrative expense priority shall not constitute an assurance of payment.

(2) Subject to paragraphs (3) and (4), with respect to a case filed under chapter 11, a utility referred to in subsection (a) may alter, refuse, or discontinue utility service, if during the 30-day period beginning on the date of the filing of the petition, the utility does not receive from the debtor or the trustee adequate assurance of payment for utility service that is satisfactory to the utility.

(3)(A) On request of a party in interest and after notice and a hearing, the court may order modification of the amount of an assurance of payment under paragraph (2).

(B) In making a determination under this paragraph whether an assurance of payment is adequate, the court may not consider—

(i) the absence of security before the date of the filing of the petition;

(ii) the payment by the debtor of charges for utility service in a timely manner before the date of the filing of the petition; or

(iii) the availability of an administrative expense priority.

(4) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, with respect to a case subject to this subsection, a utility may recover or set off against a security deposit provided to the utility by the debtor before the date of the filing of the petition without notice or order of the court.

(Pub. L. 95–598, Nov. 6, 1978, 92 Stat. 2578; Pub. L. 98–353, title III, §443, July 10, 1984, 98 Stat. 373; Pub. L. 109–8, title IV, §417, Apr. 20, 2005, 119 Stat. 108; Pub. L. 116–260, div. FF, title X, §1001(h), Dec. 27, 2020, 134 Stat. 3221.)

#### Historical and Revision Notes ####

#### legislative statements ####

Section 366 of the House amendment represents a compromise between comparable provisions contained in H.R. 8200 as passed by the House and the Senate amendment. Subsection (a) is modified so that the applicable date is the date of the order for relief rather than the date of the filing of the petition. Subsection (b) contains a similar change but is otherwise derived from section 366(b) of the Senate amendment, with the exception that a time period for continued service of 20 days rather than 10 days is adopted.

#### senate report no. 95–989 ####

This section gives debtors protection from a cut-off of service by a utility because of the filing of a bankruptcy case. This section is intended to cover utilities that have some special position with respect to the debtor, such as an electric company, gas supplier, or telephone company that is a monopoly in the area so that the debtor cannot easily obtain comparable service from another utility. The utility may not alter, refuse, or discontinue service because of the nonpayment of a bill that would be discharged in the bankruptcy case. Subsection (b) protects the utility company by requiring the trustee or the debtor to provide, within ten days, adequate assurance of payment for service provided after the date of the petition.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2020**—Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 116–260, §1001(h)(2), struck out subsec. (d) which read as follows: "Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, a utility may not alter, refuse, or discontinue service to a debtor who does not furnish adequate assurance of payment under this section if the debtor—

"(1) is an individual;

"(2) makes a payment to the utility for any debt owed to the utility for service provided during the 20-day period beginning on the date of the order for relief; and

"(3) after the date on which the 20-day period beginning on the date of the order for relief ends, makes a payment to the utility for services provided during the pendency of case when such a payment becomes due."

Pub. L. 116–260, §1001(h)(1), added subsec. (d).

**2005**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 109–8, §417(1), substituted "subsections (b) and (c)" for "subsection (b)".

Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 109–8, §417(2), added subsec. (c).

**1984**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 98–353 inserted "of the commencement of a case under this title or" after "basis".

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date of 2020 Amendment ####

Pub. L. 116–260, div. FF, title X, §1001(h)(2), Dec. 27, 2020, 134 Stat. 3221, provided that the amendment made by section 1001(h)(2) is effective on the date that is 1 year after Dec. 27, 2020.

#### Effective Date of 2005 Amendment ####

Amendment by Pub. L. 109–8 effective 180 days after Apr. 20, 2005, and not applicable with respect to cases commenced under this title before such effective date, except as otherwise provided, see section 1501 of Pub. L. 109–8, set out as a note under section 101 of this title.

#### Effective Date of 1984 Amendment ####

Amendment by Pub. L. 98–353 effective with respect to cases filed 90 days after July 10, 1984, see section 552(a) of Pub. L. 98–353, set out as a note under section 101 of this title.

### **CHAPTER 5—CREDITORS, THE DEBTOR, AND THE ESTATE** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—CREDITORS AND CLAIMS ####

Sec.
501.Filing of proofs of claims or interests.
502.Allowance of claims or interests.
503.Allowance of administrative expenses.
504.Sharing of compensation.
505.Determination of tax liability.
506.Determination of secured status.
507.Priorities.
508.Effect of distribution other than under this title.
509.Claims of codebtors.
510.Subordination.
511.Rate of interest on tax claims.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—DEBTOR'S DUTIES AND BENEFITS ####

521.Debtor's duties.
522.Exemptions.
523.Exceptions to discharge.
524.Effect of discharge.
525.Protection against discriminatory treatment.
526.Restrictions on debt relief agencies.
527.Disclosures.
528.Requirements for debt relief agencies.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—THE ESTATE ####

541.Property of the estate.
542.Turnover of property to the estate.
543.Turnover of property by a custodian.
544.Trustee as lien creditor and as successor to certain creditors and purchasers.
545.Statutory liens.
546.Limitations on avoiding powers.
547.Preferences.
548.Fraudulent transfers and obligations.
549.Postpetition transactions.
550.Liability of transferee of avoided transfer.
551.Automatic preservation of avoided transfer.
552.Postpetition effect of security interest.
553.Setoff.
554.Abandonment of property of the estate.
555.Contractual right to liquidate, terminate, or accelerate a securities contract.
556.Contractual right to liquidate, terminate, or accelerate a commodities contract or forward contract.
557.Expedited determination of interests in, and abandonment or other disposition of grain assets.
558.Defenses of the estate.
559.Contractual right to liquidate, terminate, or accelerate a repurchase agreement.
560.Contractual right to liquidate, terminate, or accelerate a swap agreement.
561.Contractual right to terminate, liquidate, accelerate, or offset under a master netting agreement and across contracts; proceedings under chapter 15.
562.Timing of damage measure in connection with swap agreements, securities contracts, forward contracts, commodity contracts, repurchase agreements, and master netting agreements.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2010**—Pub. L. 111–327, §2(a)(50), Dec. 22, 2010, 124 Stat. 3562, substituted "and master netting agreements" for "or master netting agreements" in item 562.

**2005**—Pub. L. 109–8, title II, §§227(b), 228(b), 229(b), title VII, §704(b), title IX, §§907(k)(2), (p)(1), 910(a)(2), Apr. 20, 2005, 119 Stat. 69, 71, 72, 126, 181, 182, 184, added items 511, 526 to 528, 561 and 562 and substituted "Contractual right to liquidate, terminate, or accelerate a securities contract" for "Contractual right to liquidate a securities contract" in item 555, "Contractual right to liquidate, terminate, or accelerate a commodities contract or forward contract" for "Contractual right to liquidate a commodity contract or forward contract" in item 556, "Contractual right to liquidate, terminate, or accelerate a repurchase agreement" for "Contractual right to liquidate a repurchase agreement" in item 559, and "Contractual right to liquidate, terminate, or accelerate a swap agreement" for "Contractual right to terminate a swap agreement" in item 560.

**1990**—Pub. L. 101–311, title I, §106(b), June 25, 1990, 104 Stat. 268, added item 560.

**1986**—Pub. L. 99–554, title II, §283(q), Oct. 27, 1986, 100 Stat. 3118, amended items 557 to 559 generally, substituting "interests in, and abandonment or other disposition of grain assets" for "in and disposition of grain" in item 557.

**1984**—Pub. L. 98–353, title III, §§352(b), 396(b), 470(b), July 10, 1984, 98 Stat. 361, 366, 380, added items 557, 558, and 559.

**1982**—Pub. L. 97–222, §6(b), July 27, 1982, 96 Stat. 237, added items 555 and 556.

### SUBCHAPTER I—CREDITORS AND CLAIMS ###

