
### §12595. National service educational awards ###

§12595. National service educational awards

#### (a) Eligibility generally ####

A participant in a national service program carried out using assistance provided to an applicant under section 12571 of this title shall be eligible for the national service educational award described in division D if the participant—

(1) serves in an approved national service position; and

(2) satisfies the eligibility requirements specified in section 12602 of this title with respect to service in that approved national service position.

#### (b) Special rule for VISTA volunteers ####

A VISTA volunteer who serves in an approved national service position shall be ineligible for a national service educational award if the VISTA volunteer accepts the stipend authorized under section 4955(a)(1) of this title.

(Pub. L. 101–610, title I, §141, as added Pub. L. 103–82, title I, §101(b), Sept. 21, 1993, 107 Stat. 814.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Prior Provisions ####

A prior section 141 of Pub. L. 101–610 was classified to section 12571 of this title prior to the general amendment of subtitle D of title I of Pub. L. 101–610 [former part D of this subchapter] by Pub. L. 103–82, §102(a).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date ####

Section effective Oct. 1, 1993, see section 123 of Pub. L. 103–82, set out as an Effective Date of 1993 Amendment note under section 1701 of Title 16, Conservation.

### Division D—National Service Trust and Provision of Educational Awards ###

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

Subtitle D of title I of Pub. L. 101–610, comprising this division, was formerly classified to part D (§12571 et seq.) of this subchapter prior to the general amendment by Pub. L. 103–82, §102(a).

Pub. L. 111–13, title I, §1401(a), Apr. 21, 2009, 123 Stat. 1512, amended div. heading generally.

