
### §606. Disposition of seized mail ###

§606. Disposition of seized mail

Every package or parcel seized by an officer or employee of the Postal Service performing duties related to the inspection of postal matters, a customs officer, or United States marshal or his deputies, in which a letter is unlawfully concealed, shall be forfeited to the United States. The same proceedings may be used to enforce forfeitures as are authorized in respect of goods, wares, and merchandise forfeited for violation of the revenue laws. Laws for the benefit and protection of customs officers making seizures for violating revenue laws apply to officers and employees making seizures for violating the postal laws.

(Pub. L. 91–375, Aug. 12, 1970, 84 Stat. 728.)

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date ####

Section effective July 1, 1971, pursuant to Resolution No. 71–9 of the Board of Governors. See section 15(a) of Pub. L. 91–375, set out as a note preceding section 101 of this title.

## PART II—PERSONNEL ##

Chap.Sec.
10.Employment Within the Postal Service1001
12.Employee-Management Agreements1201

### **CHAPTER 10—EMPLOYMENT WITHIN THE POSTAL SERVICE** ###

Sec.
1001.Appointment and status.
1002.Political recommendations.
1003.Employment policy.
1004.Supervisory and other managerial organizations.
1005.Applicability of laws relating to Federal employees.
1006.Right of transfer.
1007.Seniority for employees in rural service.
1008.Temporary employees or carriers.
1009.Personnel not to receive fees.
1010.Administration of oaths related to postal inspection matters.
1011.Oath of office.

