
### §4106. Funding and additional authorities ###

§4106. Funding and additional authorities

#### (a) Funding ####

The Administrator shall carry out this chapter using existing amounts appropriated or otherwise made available to the Administration.

#### (b) Additional authorities ####

In carrying out this chapter, the Administrator may—

(1) enter into contracts, cooperative agreements, and other transactions with any domestic or foreign government;

(2) notwithstanding section 1342 of title 31, accept donations and voluntary and uncompensated services;

(3) accept funds from other Federal departments and agencies;

(4) utilize the National Oceanographic Partnership Program established under chapter 665 of title 10 to accept funds from other Federal departments and agencies, to accept donations, and to enter into contracts and award grants;

(5) under an agreement entered into under paragraph (1), transfer funds appropriated to carry our this chapter to any organization; and

(6) use, with their consent, with or without reimbursement, and subject to the availability of appropriations, the land, services, equipment, personnel, and facilities of—

(A) any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States;

(B) any State or local government or tribal government; or

(C) any foreign government or international organization.

(Pub. L. 115–394, §7, Dec. 21, 2018, 132 Stat. 5286.)

### **CHAPTER 55—SAVE OUR SEAS 2.0** ###

Sec.
4201.Definitions.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—COMBATING MARINE DEBRIS ####

#### Part A—Marine Debris Foundation ####

4211.Establishment and purposes of Foundation.
4212.Board of Directors of the Foundation.
4213.Rights and obligations of the Foundation.
4214.Administrative services and support.
4215.Volunteer status.
4216.Report requirements; petition of Attorney General for equitable relief.
4217.United States release from liability.
4218.Authorization of appropriations.
4219.Termination of authority.
#### Part B—Genius Prize for Save Our Seas Innovations ####

4231.Definitions.
4232.Genius Prize for Save Our Seas Innovations.
4233.Agreement with the Marine Debris Foundation.
4234.Judges.
4235.Report to Congress.
4236.Authorization of appropriations.
4237.Termination of authority.
#### Part C—Pilot Projects ####

4251.Incentive for fishermen to collect and dispose of plastic found at sea.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—ENHANCED GLOBAL ENGAGEMENT TO COMBAT MARINE DEBRIS ####

4261.Statement of policy on international cooperation to combat marine debris.
4262.Prioritization of efforts and assistance to combat marine debris and improve plastic waste management.
4263.United States leadership in international FORA.
4264.Enhancing international outreach and partnership of United States agencies involved in marine debris activities.
4265.Consideration of marine debris in negotiating international agreements.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—IMPROVING DOMESTIC INFRASTRUCTURE TO PREVENT MARINE DEBRIS ####

4281.Strategy for improving post-consumer materials management and water management.
4282.Grant programs.

