
### §315. Advisory Committee on Data for Evidence Building ###

§315. Advisory Committee on Data for Evidence Building

(a) Establishment.—The Director, or the head of an agency designated by the Director, shall establish an Advisory Committee on Data for Evidence Building (in this section referred to as the "Advisory Committee") to review, analyze, and make recommendations on how to promote the use of Federal data for evidence building.

(b) Membership.—The members of the Advisory Committee shall consist of the Chief Statistician of the United States, who shall serve as the Chair of the Advisory Committee, and other members appointed by the Director as follows:

(1) One member who is an agency Chief Information Officer.

(2) One member who is an agency Chief Privacy Officer.

(3) One member who is an agency Chief Performance Officer.

(4) Three members who are agency Chief Data Officers.

(5) Three members who are agency Evaluation Officers.

(6) Three members who are members of the Interagency Council for Statistical Policy [1](#315_1_target) established under section 3504(e)(8) of title 44.

(7) At least 10 members who are representatives of State and local governments and nongovernmental stakeholders with expertise in government data policy, privacy, technology, transparency policy, evaluation and research methodologies, and other relevant subjects, of whom—

(A) at least one shall have expertise in transparency policy;

(B) at least one shall have expertise in privacy policy;

(C) at least one shall have expertise in statistical data use;

(D) at least one shall have expertise in information management;

(E) at least one shall have expertise in information technology; and

(F) at least one shall be from the research and evaluation community.

(c) Term of Service.—

(1) In general.—Each member of the Advisory Committee shall serve for a term of 2 years.

(2) Vacancy.—Any member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring before the expiration of the term for which the member's predecessor was appointed shall be appointed only for the remainder of that term. A vacancy in the Commission shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment was made.

(d) Compensation.—Members of the Advisory Committee shall serve without compensation.

(e) Duties.—The Advisory Committee shall—

(1) assist the Director in carrying out the duties of the Director under part D of subchapter III of chapter 35 of title 44;

(2) evaluate and provide recommendations to the Director on how to facilitate data sharing, enable data linkage, and develop privacy enhancing techniques; and

(3) review the coordination of data sharing or availability for evidence building across all agencies.

(f) Reports.—The Advisory Committee shall submit to the Director and make publicly available an annual report on the activities and findings of the Advisory Committee.

(g) Termination.—The Advisory Committee shall terminate not later than two years after the date of the first meeting.

(Added Pub. L. 115–435, title I, §101(a)(2), Jan. 14, 2019, 132 Stat. 5531.)

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date ####

Section effective 180 days after Jan. 14, 2019, see section 403 of Pub. L. 115–435, set out as an Effective Date of 2019 Amendment note under section 306 of this title.

[1 So in original. Probably should be "Interagency Council on Statistical Policy".](#315_1)

### **CHAPTER 4—INSPECTORS GENERAL** ###

Sec.
401.Definitions.
402.Establishment and purpose of Offices of Inspector General.
403.Appointments.
404.Duties and responsibilities.
405.Reports.
406.Authority of Inspector General.
407.Complaints by employees.
408.Additional provisions with respect to the Inspector General of the Department of Defense.
409.Special provisions concerning the Agency for International Development.
410.Special provisions concerning the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
411.Special provisions concerning the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
412.Special provisions concerning the Department of the Treasury.
413.Special provisions concerning the Department of Justice.
414.Special provisions concerning the Corporation for National and Community Service.
415.Requirements for Federal entities and designated Federal entities.
416.Additional provisions with respect to Inspectors General of the intelligence community.
417.Special provisions concerning the Department of Homeland Security.
418.Rule of construction of special provisions.
419.Special provisions concerning overseas contingency operations.
420.Information on websites of Offices of Inspectors General.
421.Additional provisions with respect to the Department of Energy.
422.Transfer of functions.
423.Pay of Inspectors General.
424.Establishment of the Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency.

