
### §14702. False statements ###

§14702. False statements

A person knowingly making a false statement or representation in a matter in which a statement or representation is required by this part or a regulation prescribed under this part is liable to the United States Government for a civil penalty of not more than $20,000 for each false statement or representation. The vessel also is liable in rem for the penalty.

(Pub. L. 99–509, title V, §5101(3), Oct. 21, 1986, 100 Stat. 1925.)

#### Historical and Revision Notes ####

#### *Revised section 14702* ####

Source: Section (U.S. Code) 46 App. U.S.C. 83i.

Section 14702 provides that a person knowingly making a false statement or representation in a matter in which a statement or representation is required by this part or a regulation prescribed under this part is liable to the United States Government for a civil penalty of not more than $20,000 for each false statement or representation. It further provides that the vessel is liable in rem for the penalty. This penalty is increased from $1,000 in existing law and conforms with the level of similar penalties throughout the subtitle.

### Part K—National Maritime Transportation Advisory Committees ###

### **CHAPTER 151—NATIONAL MARITIME TRANSPORTATION ADVISORY COMMITTEES** ###

Sec.
15101.National Chemical Transportation Safety Advisory Committee.
15102.National Commercial Fishing Safety Advisory Committee.
15103.National Merchant Marine Personnel Advisory Committee.
15104.National Merchant Mariner Medical Advisory Committee.
15105.National Boating Safety Advisory Committee.
15106.National Offshore Safety Advisory Committee.
15107.National Navigation Safety Advisory Committee.
15108.National Towing Safety Advisory Committee.
15109.Administration.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Treatment of Existing Councils and Committees ####

Pub. L. 115–282, title VI, §601(d), Dec. 4, 2018, 132 Stat. 4290, provided that: "Notwithstanding any other provision of law—

"(1) an advisory council or committee substantially similar to an advisory committee established under chapter 151 of title 46, United States Code, as added by this Act, and that was in force or in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this section [Dec. 4, 2018], including a council or committee the authority for which was repealed under subsection (c) [repealing sections 4508, 7115, 8108, and 13110 of this title and sections 1231a and 2073 of Title 33, Navigation and Navigable Waters], may remain in force or in effect for a period of 2 years from the date of enactment of this section, including that the charter, membership, and other aspects of the council or committee may remain in force or in effect; and

"(2) during the 2-year period referenced in paragraph (1)—

"(A) requirements relating to the applicable advisory committee established under chapter 151 of title 46, United States Code, shall be treated as satisfied by the substantially similar advisory council or committee; and

"(B) the enactment of this section [see Tables for classification], including the amendments made in this section, shall not be the basis—

"(i) to deem, find, or declare such council or committee, including the charter, membership, and other aspects thereof, void, not in force, or not in effect;

"(ii) to suspend the activities of such council or committee; or

"(iii) to bar the members of such council or committee from meeting."

