
### §4357. Definitions ###

§4357. Definitions

For purposes of this chapter—

(1) the term "Advisory Committee" means the Advisory Committee on Historical Diplomatic Documentation for the Department of State;

(2) the term "Historian" means the Historian of the Department of State or any successor officer of the Department of State responsible for carrying out the functions of the Office of the Historian, Bureau of Public Affairs, of the Department of State, as in effect on October 28, 1991;

(3) the term "originating agency" means, with respect to a record, the department, agency, or entity of the United States (or any officer or employee thereof of acting in his official capacity) that originates, develops, publishes, issues, or otherwise prepares that record or receives that record from outside the United States Government; and

(4) the term "record" includes any written material (including any document, memorandum, correspondence, statistical data, book, or other papers), map, photograph, machine readable material, or other documentary material, regardless of physical form or characteristics, made or received by an agency of the United States Government under Federal law or in connection with the transaction of public business and preserved or appropriate for preservation by that agency or its legitimate successor as evidence of the organization, functions, policies, decisions, procedures, operations, or other activities of the Government or because of the informational value in them, and such term does not include library or museum material made or acquired and preserved solely for reference or exhibition purposes, any extra copy of a document preserved only for convenience of reference, or any stocks of publications or of processed documents.

(Aug. 1, 1956, ch. 841, title IV, §407, as added Pub. L. 102–138, title I, §198(a), Oct. 28, 1991, 105 Stat. 690.)

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Authority of Secretary of State ####

Except as otherwise provided, Secretary of State to have and exercise any authority vested by law in any official or office of Department of State and references to such officials or offices deemed to refer to Secretary of State or Department of State, as appropriate, see section 2651a of this title and section 161(d) of Pub. L. 103–236, set out as a note under section 2651a of this title.

### **CHAPTER 54—PRIVATE ORGANIZATION ASSISTANCE** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—THE ASIA FOUNDATION ####

Sec.
4401.Findings.
4402.Grants; authorization; purposes; terms and conditions; deposit of interest.
4403.Funding.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR DEMOCRACY ####

4411.Findings; statement of purposes.
4412.Grants to the Endowment.
4413.Eligibility of the Endowment for grants.
4414.Requirements relating to the Endowment and its grantees.
4415.Freedom of information.
4416.Retention of interest.

### SUBCHAPTER I—THE ASIA FOUNDATION ###

