
### §8502. National Capital Service Director ###

§8502. National Capital Service Director

(a) Establishment and Compensation.—There is in the Executive Office of the President the National Capital Service Director who shall be appointed by the President. The Director shall receive compensation at the maximum rate established for level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5.

(b) Personnel.—The Director may appoint and fix the rate of compensation of necessary personnel, subject to chapters 33 and 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5.

(c) Duties.—

(1) President.—The President, through the Director and using District of Columbia governmental services to the extent practicable, shall ensure that there is provided in the area described in section 8501(a) of this title adequate fire protection and sanitation services.

(2) Director.—Except with respect to that part of the National Capital Service Area comprising the United States Capitol Buildings and Grounds as defined and described in sections 5101 and 5102 of this title, the Supreme Court Building and grounds as described in section 6101 of this title, and the Library of Congress buildings and grounds as defined in section 11 of the Act of August 4, 1950 (2 U.S.C. 167j), the Director shall ensure that there is provided in the remainder of the area described in section 8501(a) of this title adequate police protection and maintenance of streets and highways.

(Pub. L. 107–217, Aug. 21, 2002, 116 Stat. 1215; Pub. L. 109–284, §6(25), (26), Sept. 27, 2006, 120 Stat. 1213.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 8502(a) | 40:136(b) (1st sentence), (c) (1st sentence). | Pub. L. 93–198, title VII, §739(b), (c), Dec. 24, 1973, 87 Stat. 825. |
| 8502(b) | 40:136(c) (last sentence). ||
| 8502(c) | 40:136(b) (2d, last sentences). ||

In subsection (a), the words "from time to time" and "of section 5314 [sic] of title 5" are omitted as unnecessary. [The words "of section 5314 of title 5" were not omitted.]

In subsection (b), the reference to chapter 33 of title 5 is substituted for "the provisions of title 5 governing appointments in the competitive service" for clarity and for consistency in the revised title and with other titles of the United States Code. The words "subchapter III" are substituted for "subchapter 3" to correct an error in the source provision.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2006**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 109–284, §6(25), substituted "5315" for "5314".

Subsec. (c)(2). Pub. L. 109–284, §6(26), inserted "of this title" after "sections 5101 and 5102".

### **CHAPTER 87—PHYSICAL DEVELOPMENT OF NATIONAL CAPITAL REGION** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL ####

Sec.
8701.Findings and purposes.
8702.Definitions.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—PLANNING AGENCIES ####

8711.National Capital Planning Commission.
8712.Mayor of the District of Columbia.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—PLANNING PROCESS ####

8721.Comprehensive plan for the National Capital.
8722.Proposed federal and district developments and projects.
8723.Capital improvements.
8724.Zoning regulations and maps.
8725.Recommendations on platting and subdividing land.
8726.Authorization of appropriations.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—ACQUIRING AND DISPOSING OF LAND ####

8731.Acquiring land for park, parkway, or playground purposes.
8732.Acquiring land subject to limited rights reserved to grantor and limited permanent rights in land adjoining park property.
8733.Lease of land acquired for park, parkway, or playground purposes.
8734.Sale of land by Mayor.
8735.Sale of land by Secretary of the Interior.
8736.Execution of deeds.
8737.Authorization of appropriations.

### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL ###

