
### §1828. Special interpretation services ###

§1828. Special interpretation services

(a) The Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts shall establish a program for the provision of special interpretation services in criminal actions and in civil actions initiated by the United States (including petitions for writs of habeas corpus initiated in the name of the United States by relators) in a United States district court. The program shall provide a capacity for simultaneous interpretation services in multidefendant criminal actions and multidefendant civil actions.

(b) Upon the request of any person in any action for which special interpretation services established pursuant to subsection (a) are not otherwise provided, the Director, with the approval of the presiding judicial officer, may make such services available to the person requesting the services on a reimbursable basis at rates established in conformity with section 9701 of title 31, but the Director may require the prepayment of the estimated expenses of providing the services by the person requesting them.

(c) Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, the expenses incident to providing services under subsection (a) of this section shall be paid by the Director from sums appropriated to the Federal judiciary. A presiding judicial officer, in such officer's discretion, may order that all or part of the expenses shall be apportioned between or among the parties or shall be taxed as costs in a civil action, and any moneys collected as a result of such order may be used to reimburse the appropriations obligated and disbursed in payment for such services.

(d) Appropriations available to the Director shall be available to provide services in accordance with subsection (b) of this section, and moneys collected by the Director under that subsection may be used to reimburse the appropriations charged for such services. A presiding judicial officer, in such officer's discretion, may order that all or part of the expenses shall be apportioned between or among the parties or shall be taxed as costs in the action.

(Added Pub. L. 95–539, §2(a), Oct. 28, 1978, 92 Stat. 2042; amended Pub. L. 97–258, §3(g), Sept. 13, 1982, 96 Stat. 1065.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**1982**—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 97–258 substituted "section 9701 of title 31" for "section 501 of the Act of August 31, 1951 (ch. 376, title 5, 65 Stat. 290; 31 U.S.C. 483a)".

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date ####

Section effective ninety days after Oct. 28, 1978, see section 10(b) of Pub. L. 95–539, set out as an Effective Date of 1978 Amendment note under section 602 of this title.

### **CHAPTER 121—JURIES; TRIAL BY JURY** ###

Sec.
1861.Declaration of policy.
1862.Discrimination prohibited.
1863.Plan for random jury selection.
1864.Drawing of names from the master jury wheel; completion of juror qualification form.
1865.Qualifications for jury service.
1866.Selection and summoning of jury panels.
1867.Challenging compliance with selection procedures.
1868.Maintenance and inspection of records.
1869.Definitions.
1870.Challenges.
1871.Fees.
1872.Issues of fact in Supreme Court.
1873.Admiralty and maritime cases.
1874.Actions on bonds and specialties.
1875.Protection of jurors' employment.
1876.Trial by jury in the Court of International Trade.
1877.Protection of jurors.
1878.Optional use of a one-step summoning and qualification procedure.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**1992**—Pub. L. 102–572, title IV, §403(b), Oct. 29, 1992, 106 Stat. 4512, substituted "Optional" for "Experimental" in item 1878.

**1988**—Pub. L. 100–702, title VIII, §805(b), Nov. 19, 1988, 102 Stat. 4659, added item 1878.

**1983**—Pub. L. 97–463, §3(2), Jan. 12, 1983, 96 Stat. 2532, added item 1877.

**1980**—Pub. L. 96–417, title III, §302(b), Oct. 10, 1980, 94 Stat. 1739, added item 1876.

**1978**—Pub. L. 95–572, §6(a)(2), Nov. 2, 1978, 92 Stat. 2456, added item 1875.

**1968**—Pub. L. 90–274, §101, Mar. 27, 1968, 82 Stat. 53, substituted "Declaration of policy" for "Qualifications" as item 1861, "Discrimination prohibited" for "Exemptions" as item 1862, "Plan for random jury selection" for "Exclusion or excuse from service" as item 1863, "Drawing of names from the master jury wheel; completion of juror qualification form" for "Manner of drawing; jury commissioners and their compensation" as item 1864, "Qualifications for jury service" for "Apportionment within district; additional jury commissioners" as item 1865, "Selection and summoning of jury panels" for "Special petit juries; talesmen from bystanders" as item 1866, "Challenging compliance with selection procedures" for "Summoning jurors" as item 1867, "Maintenance and inspection of records" for "Disqualification of marshal or deputy" as item 1868, "Definitions" for "Frequency of service" as item 1869, and reenacted items 1870–1874 without change.

