
### §45306. Manual surcharge ###

§45306. Manual surcharge

(a) In General.—Not later 3 years after the date of enactment of the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018, the Administrator shall impose and collect a surcharge on a Civil Aviation Registry transaction that—

(1) is conducted in person at the Civil Aviation Registry;

(2) could be conducted, as determined by the Administrator, with the same or greater level of efficiency by electronic or other remote means; and

(3) is not related to research or other non-commercial activities.

(b) Maximum Surcharge.—A surcharge imposed and collected under subsection (a) shall not exceed twice the maximum fee the Administrator is authorized to charge for the registration of an aircraft, not used to provide air transportation, after the transfer of ownership under section 45302(b)(2).

(c) Credit to Account and Availability.—Monies collected from a surcharge imposed under subsection (a) shall be treated as monies collected under section 45302 and subject to the terms and conditions set forth in section 45302(d).

(Added Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title V, §546(d), Oct. 5, 2018, 132 Stat. 3376.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

The date of enactment of the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018, referred to in subsec. (a), is the date of enactment of Pub. L. 115–254, which was approved Oct. 5, 2018.

## subpart iv—enforcement and penalties ##

### **CHAPTER 461—INVESTIGATIONS AND PROCEEDINGS** ###

Sec.
46101.Complaints and investigations.
46102.Proceedings.
46103.Service of notice, process, and actions.
46104.Evidence.
46105.Regulations and orders.
46106.Enforcement by the Department of Transportation.
46107.Enforcement by the Attorney General.
46108.Enforcement of certificate requirements by interested persons.
46109.Joinder and intervention.
46110.Judicial review.
46111.Certificate actions in response to a security threat.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2003**—Pub. L. 108–176, title VI, §601(b), Dec. 12, 2003, 117 Stat. 2563, added item 46111.

**2001**—Pub. L. 107–71, title I, §140(b)(8), Nov. 19, 2001, 115 Stat. 641, substituted "Department of Transportation" for "Secretary of Transportation and Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration" in item 46106.

