
### §2465. John Lewis Civil Rights Fellowship Program ###

§2465. John Lewis Civil Rights Fellowship Program

#### (a) Establishment ####

There is established the John Lewis Civil Rights Fellowship Program (referred to in this section as the "Fellowship Program") within the J. William Fulbright Educational Exchange Program.

#### (b) Purposes ####

The purposes of the Fellowship Program are—

(1) to honor the legacy of Representative John Lewis by promoting a greater understanding of the history and tenets of nonviolent civil rights movements; and

(2) to advance foreign policy priorities of the United States by promoting studies, research, and international exchange in the subject of nonviolent movements that established and protected civil rights around the world.

#### (c) Administration ####

The Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs (referred to in this section as the "Bureau") shall administer the Fellowship Program in accordance with policy guidelines established by the Board, in consultation with the binational Fulbright Commissions and United States Embassies.

#### (d) Selection of fellows ####

#### (1) In general ####

The Board shall annually select qualified individuals to participate in the Fellowship Program. The Bureau may determine the number of fellows selected each year, which, whenever feasible, shall be not fewer than 25.

#### (2) Outreach ####

#### (A) In general ####

To the extent practicable, the Bureau shall conduct outreach at institutions, including—

(i) minority serving institutions, including historically Black colleges and universities; and

(ii) other appropriate institutions that are likely to produce a range of qualified applicants, as determined by the Bureau.

#### (B) Definitions ####

In this paragraph:

#### (i) Historically Black college and university ####

The term "historically Black college and university" has the meaning given the term "part B institution" in section 1061 of title 20.

#### (ii) Minority serving institution ####

The term "minority-serving institution" means an eligible institution under section 1067q(a) of title 20.

#### (e) Fellowship orientation ####

Annually, the Bureau shall organize and administer a fellowship orientation, which shall—

(1) be held in Washington, D.C., or at another location selected by the Bureau; and

(2) include programming to honor the legacy of Representative John Lewis.

#### (f) Structure ####

#### (1) Work plan ####

To carry out the purposes described in subsection (b)—

(A) each fellow selected pursuant to subsection (d) shall arrange an internship or research placement—

(i) with a nongovernmental organization, academic institution, or other organization approved by the Bureau; and

(ii) in a country with an operational Fulbright U.S. Student Program; and

(B) the Bureau shall, for each fellow, approve a work plan that identifies the target objectives for the fellow, including specific duties and responsibilities relating to those objectives.

#### (2) Conferences; presentations ####

Each fellow shall—

(A) attend a fellowship orientation organized and administered by the Bureau under subsection (e);

(B) not later than the date that is 1 year after the end of the fellowship period, attend a fellowship summit organized and administered by the Bureau, which—

(i) whenever feasible, shall be held in a location of importance to the civil rights movement in the United States; and

(ii) may coincide with other events facilitated by the Bureau; and

(C) at such summit, give a presentation on lessons learned during the period of the fellowship.

#### (3) Fellowship period ####

Each fellowship under this section shall continue for a period determined by the Bureau, which, whenever feasible, shall be not fewer than 10 months.

#### (g) Fellowship award ####

The Bureau shall provide each fellow under this section with an allowance that is equal to the amount needed for—

(1) the reasonable costs of the fellow during the fellowship period; and

(2) travel and lodging expenses related to attending the orientation and summit required under subsection (e)(2).

#### (h) Annual report ####

Not later than 1 year after the date of the completion of the Fellowship Program by the initial cohort of fellows selected under subsection (d), and annually thereafter, the Secretary of State shall submit to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on the implementation of the Fellowship Program, including—

(1) a description of the demographics of the cohort of fellows who completed a fellowship during the preceding 1-year period;

(2) a description of internship and research placements, and research projects selected by such cohort, under the Fellowship Program, including feedback from—

(A) such cohort on implementation of the Fellowship Program; and

(B) the Secretary on lessons learned;

(3) a plan for factoring such lessons learned into future programming, and

(4) an analysis of trends relating to the diversity of each cohort of fellows and the topics of projects completed since the establishment of the Fellowship Program.

(Pub. L. 87–256, §115, as added Pub. L. 118–31, div. F, title LXVI, §6604(a), Dec. 22, 2023, 137 Stat. 1011.)

#### Termination of Section ####

For termination of section by section 6604(c) of Pub. L. 118–31, see Termination Date note set out below.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Termination Date ####

Pub. L. 118–31, div. F, title LXVI, §6604(c), Dec. 22, 2023, 137 Stat. 1013, provided that: "The authority to carry out the John Lewis Civil Rights Fellowship Program established under section 115 of the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2451 et seq.) [22 U.S.C. 2465], as added by subsection (a), shall expire on the date that is 10 years after the date of the enactment of this division [Dec. 22, 2023]."

### **CHAPTER 34—THE PEACE CORPS** ###

Sec.
2501.Congressional declaration of purpose.
2501–1.Independent agency status of Peace Corps.
2501a.Voluntary service programs.
2502.Presidential authorization; appropriations and financial readjustments.
2503.Director and Deputy Director; delegation of functions.
2504.Peace Corps volunteers.
2504a.Health care for volunteers at Peace Corps posts.
2505.Peace Corps volunteer leaders; number; applicability of chapter; benefits.
2506.Peace Corps employees.
2507.Training program.
2507a.Sexual assault risk-reduction and response training.
2507b.Sexual assault policy.
2507c.Office of Victim Advocacy.
2507d.Establishment of Sexual Assault Advisory Council.
2507e.Volunteer feedback and Peace Corps review.
2507f.Establishment of a policy on stalking.
2507g.Establishment of a confidentiality protection policy.
2507h.Removal and assessment and evaluation.
2507i.Reporting requirements.
2508.Foreign participants; admission into the United States as nonimmigrants; removal.
2509.Presidential powers and authorities.
2510.Omitted.
2511.Peace Corps National Advisory Council.
2512.Experts and consultants.
2513.Assignment of personnel to foreign governments or international organizations.
2514.Use of funds.
2514a.Authorization for Peace Corps to provide separation pay for host country resident personal services contractors of the Peace Corps.
2515.Foreign Currency Fluctuations Account.
2516.Use of foreign currencies.
2517.Activities promoting Americans' understanding of other peoples.
2518.Seal and name.
2519.Security investigations.
2520.Military training and service exemption.
2521.Foreign language proficiency.
2521a.Nonpartisan appointments.
2522.Definitions.
2523.Separability.

