
### §13713. Food and grocery transportation ###

§13713. Food and grocery transportation

(a) Certain Compensation Prohibited.—Notwithstanding any other provision of law, it shall not be unlawful for a seller of food and grocery products using a uniform zone delivered pricing system to compensate a customer who picks up purchased food and grocery products at the shipping point of the seller if such compensation is available to all customers of the seller on a nondiscriminatory basis and does not exceed the actual cost to the seller of delivery to such customer.

(b) Sense of Congress.—It is the sense of the Congress that any savings accruing to a customer by reason of compensation permitted by subsection (a) of this section should be passed on to the ultimate consumer.

(Added Pub. L. 104–88, title I, §103, Dec. 29, 1995, 109 Stat. 879.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Prior Provisions ####

Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in section 10732 of this title prior to the general amendment of this subtitle by Pub. L. 104–88, §102(a).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date ####

Section effective Jan. 1, 1996, except as otherwise provided in Pub. L. 104–88, see section 2 of Pub. L. 104–88, set out as a note under section 1301 of this title.

### **CHAPTER 139—REGISTRATION** ###

Sec.
13901.Requirement for registration.[1](#CHAPTER139_1_target)
13902.Registration of motor carriers.
13903.Registration of freight forwarders.
13904.Registration of brokers.
13905.Effective periods of registration.
13906.Security of motor carriers, motor private carriers, brokers, and freight forwarders.
13907.Household goods agents.
13908.Registration and other reforms.
13909.Availability of information.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2012**—Pub. L. 112–141, div. C, title II, §32914(b)(2), July 6, 2012, 126 Stat. 820, added item 13909.

**2005**—Pub. L. 109–59, title IV, §4303(d)(2), Aug. 10, 2005, 119 Stat. 1763, inserted "motor private carriers," after "motor carriers," in item 13906.

[1 So in original. Section catchline amended by Pub. L. 112–141 without corresponding amendment of chapter analysis.](#CHAPTER139_1)

