
### §2904. Strategic Environmental Research and Development Program Scientific Advisory Board ###

§2904. Strategic Environmental Research and Development Program Scientific Advisory Board

(a) The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Energy, in consultation with the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, shall jointly appoint a Strategic Environmental Research and Development Program Scientific Advisory Board (hereafter in this section referred to as the "Advisory Board") consisting of not less than six and not more than 14 members.

(b)(1) The following persons shall be permanent members of the Advisory Board:

(A) The Science Advisor to the President, or his designee.

(B) The Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, or his designee.

(2) Other members of the Advisory Board shall be appointed from among persons eminent in the fields of basic sciences, engineering, ocean and environmental sciences, education, research management, international and security affairs, health physics, health sciences, or social sciences, with due regard given to the equitable representation of scientists and engineers who are women or who represent minority groups. At least one member of the Advisory Board shall be a representative of environmental public interest groups and one member shall be a representative of the interests of State governments.

(3) The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Energy, in consultation with the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, shall request—

(A) that the head of the National Academy of Sciences, in consultation with the head of the National Academy of Engineering and the head of the Institutes of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences, nominate persons for appointment to the Advisory Board;

(B) that the Council on Environmental Quality nominate for appointment to the Advisory Board at least one person who is a representative of environmental public interest groups; and

(C) that the National Association of Governors nominate for appointment to the Advisory Board at least one person who is representative of the interests of State governments.

(4) Members of the Advisory Board shall be appointed for terms of not less than two and not more than four years.

(c) A member of the Advisory Board who is not otherwise employed by the Federal Government shall not be considered to be a Federal employee, except for the purposes of chapter 81 of title 5 (relating to compensation for work-related injuries) and chapter 171 of title 28 (relating to tort claims).

(d) The Advisory Board shall prescribe procedures for carrying out its responsibilities. Such procedures shall define a quorum as a majority of the members, provide for annual election of the Chairman by the members of the Advisory Board, and require at least four meetings of the Advisory Board each year.

(e) The Council shall refer to the Advisory Board, and the Advisory Board shall review, each proposed research project including its estimated cost, for research in and development of technologies related to environmental activities in excess of $1,000,000. The Advisory Board shall make any recommendations to the Council that the Advisory Board considers appropriate regarding such project or proposal.

(f) The Advisory Board may make recommendations to the Council regarding technologies, research, projects, programs, activities, and, if appropriate, funding within the scope of the Strategic Environmental Research and Development Program.

(g) The Advisory Board shall assist and advise the Council in identifying the environmental data and analytical assistance activities that should be covered by the policies and procedures prescribed pursuant to section 2902(d)(1) of this title.

(h) Each member of the Advisory Board shall be required to file a financial disclosure report under subchapter I of chapter 131 of title 5.

(Added Pub. L. 101–510, div. A, title XVIII, §1801(a)(1), Nov. 5, 1990, 104 Stat. 1756; amended Pub. L. 102–190, div. A, title II, §257(b), Dec. 5, 1991, 105 Stat. 1331; Pub. L. 105–85, div. A, title III, §341, Nov. 18, 1997, 111 Stat. 1686; Pub. L. 106–398, §1 [[div. A], title III, §313(a)], Oct. 30, 2000, 114 Stat. 1654, 1654A–55; Pub. L. 117–286, §4(c)(21), Dec. 27, 2022, 136 Stat. 4356.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2022**—Subsec. (h). Pub. L. 117–286 substituted "subchapter I of chapter 131 of title 5." for "title I of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.)."

**2000**—Subsecs. (h), (i). Pub. L. 106–398 redesignated subsec. (i) as (h) and struck out former subsec. (h) which read as follows: "Not later than March 15 of each year, the Advisory Board shall submit to the Congress an annual report setting forth its actions during the year preceding the year in which the report is submitted and any recommendations, including recommendations on projects, programs, and information exchange and recommendations for legislation, that the Advisory Board considers appropriate regarding the Strategic Environmental Research and Development Program."

**1997**—Subsec. (b)(4). Pub. L. 105–85 substituted "not less than two and not more than four" for "three years".

**1991**—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 102–190, §257(b)(1), substituted "14 members" for "13 members".

Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 102–190, §257(b)(2), added par. (1) and struck out former par. (1) which read as follows: "The Science Advisor to the President, or his designee, shall be a permanent member of the Advisory Board."

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Initial Appointments of Advisory Board Members ####

Pub. L. 101–510, div. A, title XVIII, §1801(b), Nov. 5, 1990, 104 Stat. 1757, directed Secretary of Defense and Secretary of Energy to make the appointments required by 10 U.S.C. 2904(a) not later than 60 days after Nov. 5, 1990, and provided that up to one-half of the members originally appointed to the Strategic Environmental Research and Development Program Scientific Advisory Board could be appointed for terms of not more than six and not less than two years in order to provide for staggered expiration of the terms of members.

#### First Annual Report of Advisory Board ####

Pub. L. 101–510, div. A, title XVIII, §1801(d), Nov. 5, 1990, 104 Stat. 1758, directed that first annual report of the Strategic Environmental Research and Development Program Scientific Advisory Board be submitted not later than Mar. 15, 1992.

#### Termination of Advisory Boards ####

Advisory boards established after Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period beginning on the date of their establishment, unless, in the case of a board established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such board is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a board established by the Congress, its duration is otherwise provided for by law. See sections 1001(2) and 1013 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

### **CHAPTER 173—ENERGY SECURITY** ###

SubchapterSec.
I.Energy Security Activities2911
II.Energy-Related Procurement2922
III.General Provisions2924

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2011**—Pub. L. 112–81, div. B, title XXVIII, §2821(a)(2)(A), Dec. 31, 2011, 125 Stat. 1691, substituted "2924" for "2925" in item III.

**2011**—Pub. L. 111–383, div. A, title X, §1075(b)(47), Jan. 7, 2011, 124 Stat. 4371, inserted "Sec." above "2911".

### SUBCHAPTER I—ENERGY SECURITY ACTIVITIES ###

Sec.
2911.Energy policy of the Department of Defense.
2912.Availability and use of energy cost savings.
2913.Energy savings contracts and activities.
2914.Military construction projects for energy resilience, energy security, and energy conservation.
2915.Facilities: use of renewable forms of energy and energy efficient products.
2916.Sale of electricity from alternate energy and cogeneration production facilities.
2917.Development of geothermal energy on military lands.
2918.Fuel sources for heating systems; prohibition on converting certain heating facilities.
2919.Department of Defense participation in programs for management of energy demand or reduction of energy usage during peak periods.
2920.Energy resilience and energy security measures on military installations.
2921.Energy efficiency targets for data centers.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2021**—Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title III, §312(a)(2), Dec. 27, 2021, 135 Stat. 1628, added item 2921.

Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title III, §316(b), div. B, title XXVIII, §2805(b), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 3519, 4322, added items 2914 and 2920 and struck out former item 2914 "Energy resilience and conservation construction projects".

**2019**—Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title XVII, §1731(a)(59), Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 1815, which directed amendment of the analysis at the beginning of this chapter by substituting "Energy resilience and conservation construction projects" for "Energy resiliency and conservation construction projects"in item 2914, was executed in the analysis for this subchapter to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title X, §1081(c)(6), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1985, made technical amendment to directory language of Pub. L. 115–91, §2831(b), effective as of Dec. 12, 2017, and as if included in Pub. L. 115–91 as enacted. See 2017 Amendment note below.

**2017**—Pub. L. 115–91, div. B, title XXVIII, §2831(b), Dec. 12, 2017, 131 Stat. 1857, as amended by Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title X, §1081(c)(6), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 1985, which directed amendment of the analysis at the beginning of this chapter by adding item 2911 and striking out former item 2911 "Energy performance goals and master plan for the Department of Defense", was executed in the analysis for this subchapter to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

**2016**—Pub. L. 114–328, div. B, title XXVIII, §2805(a)(2), Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2714, which directed amendment of the analysis at the beginning of this chapter by adding item 2914 and striking out former item 2914 "Energy conservation construction projects", was executed in the analysis for this subchapter to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

**2011**—Pub. L. 111–383, div. B, title XXVIII, §2832(c)(2), Jan. 7, 2011, 124 Stat. 4470, added items 2911 and 2915 and struck out former items 2911 "Energy performance goals and plan for Department of Defense" and 2915 "New construction: use of renewable forms of energy and energy efficient products".

**2009**—Pub. L. 111–84, div. B, title XXVIII, §2843(b), Oct. 28, 2009, 123 Stat. 2682, added item 2919.

