
### §40744. Offset of funds appropriated ###

§40744. Offset of funds appropriated

Any funds appropriated to carry out this subchapter, not to exceed $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2013 through 2015, shall be derived from amounts appropriated pursuant to subsection (j) of section 40701 of this title in each such fiscal year for grants under such section.

(Pub. L. 112–253, §5, Jan. 10, 2013, 126 Stat. 2409.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

This subchapter, referred to in text, was in the original "this Act", meaning Pub. L. 112–253, Jan. 10, 2013, 126 Stat. 2407, known as the Katie Sepich Enhanced DNA Collection Act of 2012, which is classified principally to this subchapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 2013 Act note set out under section 10101 of this title and Tables.

#### Codification ####

Section was formerly classified to section 14137c of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

### **CHAPTER 409—NATIONAL INSTANT CRIMINAL BACKGROUND CHECK SYSTEM** ###

Sec.
40901.Establishment.
40902.Findings.
40903.Definitions.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—TRANSMITTAL OF RECORDS ####

40911.Enhancement of requirement that Federal departments and agencies provide relevant information to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System.
40912.Requirements to obtain waiver.
40913.Implementation assistance to States.
40914.Penalties for noncompliance.
40915.Relief from disabilities program required as condition for participation in grant programs.
40916.Illegal immigrant gun purchase notification.
40917.Implementation plan.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—FOCUSING FEDERAL ASSISTANCE ON THE IMPROVEMENT OF RELEVANT RECORDS ####

40931.Continuing evaluations.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—GRANTS TO STATE COURT SYSTEMS FOR THE IMPROVEMENT IN AUTOMATION AND TRANSMITTAL OF DISPOSITION RECORDS ####

40941.Disposition records automation and transmittal improvement grants.

