
### §6160. Expense allowance for Chairmen of Majority and Minority Policy Committees of Senate; method of payment; taxability ###

§6160. Expense allowance for Chairmen of Majority and Minority Policy Committees of Senate; method of payment; taxability

For each fiscal year (commencing with the fiscal year ending September 30, 2001), there is authorized an expense allowance for the Chairmen of the Majority and Minority Policy Committees which shall not exceed $5,000 each fiscal year for each such Chairman; and amounts from such allowance shall be paid to either of such Chairmen only as reimbursement for actual expenses incurred by him and upon certification and documentation of such expenses, and amounts so paid shall not be reported as income and shall not be allowed as a deduction under title 26.

(Pub. L. 106–554, §1(a)(2) [title I, §5], Dec. 21, 2000, 114 Stat. 2763, 2763A–97; Pub. L. 108–7, div. H, title I, §1(e), Feb. 20, 2003, 117 Stat. 349.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

Section was formerly classified to section 31a–4 of this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is from the Congressional Operations Appropriations Act, 2001, which is title I of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2001.

#### Amendments ####

**2003**—Pub. L. 108–7 substituted "$5,000" for "$3,000".

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date of 2003 Amendment ####

Amendment by Pub. L. 108–7 applicable to fiscal year 2003 and each fiscal year thereafter, see section 1(f) of Pub. L. 108–7, set out as a note under section 6102 of this title.

### **CHAPTER 63—SENATE MEMBERS** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—MEMBER PAY ####

Sec.
6301.Senators' salaries.
6302.Salaries of Senators.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—EMPLOYEES, EXPENSES, AND ALLOWANCES ####

6311.Organizational expenses of Senator-elect.
6312.Clerks to Senators-elect.
6313.Senators' Official Personnel and Office Expense Account.
6314.Mail, telegraph, telephone, stationery, office supplies, and home State office and travel expenses for Senators.
6315.Telecommunications services for Senators; payment of costs out of contingent fund.
6316.United States Code Annotated or United States Code Service; procurement for Senators.
6317.Home State office space for Senators; lease of office space.
6318.Additional home State office space for Senators; declaration of disaster or emergency.
6319.Transportation of official records and papers to a Senator's State.
6320.Purchase of office equipment or furnishings by Senators.

### SUBCHAPTER I—MEMBER PAY ###

