
### §4147. Funding ###

§4147. Funding

The Secretary shall use not more than $25,000,000 of the amounts made available under section 4124(a) of this title for fiscal year 1993, and not more than $25,000,000 of the amounts made available under section 4124(a) of this title for fiscal year 1994, to carry out this subchapter. Of any amounts made available to carry out this subchapter in any appropriation Act, 90 percent shall be set aside for use in accordance with section 4143 of this title and 10 percent shall be set aside for use in accordance with subsection [1](#4147_1_target) 4144 of this title.

(Pub. L. 100–242, title II, §257, as added Pub. L. 102–550, title III, §312, Oct. 28, 1992, 106 Stat. 3769.)

[1 So in original. Probably should be "section".](#4147_1)

### **CHAPTER 43—ACTIONS AGAINST PERSONS COMMITTING BANK FRAUD CRIMES** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—DECLARATIONS PROVIDING NEW CLAIMS TO UNITED STATES ####

Sec.
4201.Filing of confidential declarations by private persons.
4202.Contents of declarations.
4203.Confidentiality of declarations.
4204.Ineligibility to file valid declarations.
4205.Rights of declarants; participation in actions, awards.
4206.Rights of declarants; notifications; Government accountability.
4207.Unreviewed declarations; petition to pursue action as private contractor.
4208.Nonreviewability of action by Attorney General.
4209.Repealed.
4210.Sources of payments to declarants.
4211.Repealed.
4212.Protection for declarants.
4213.Promulgation of regulations.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—DECLARATIONS PROVIDING UNITED STATES WITH NEW INFORMATION CONCERNING RECOVERY OF ASSETS ####

4221.Filing of confidential declarations by private persons identifying specific assets.
4222.Contents of declarations.
4223.Confidentiality of declarations.
4224.Ineligibility to file valid declarations.
4225.Rights of declarants; participation in actions, awards.
4226.Rights of declarants; notifications; Government accountability.
4227.Unreviewed declarations; petition to pursue action as private contractor.
4228.Nonreviewability of action by Attorney General.
4229.Protection for declarants.
4230.Promulgation of regulations.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—USE OF PRIVATE LEGAL RESOURCES ####

4241.Authority to enter into contracts for private counsel.
4242.Contract decisions nonreviewable.
4243.Representation.
4244.Contract provisions.
4245.Counterclaims.
4246.Awards of costs and fees to prevailing plaintiff.
4247.Promulgation of regulations.

### SUBCHAPTER I—DECLARATIONS PROVIDING NEW CLAIMS TO UNITED STATES ###

