
### §3510. Additional medical and safety standards ###

§3510. Additional medical and safety standards

(a) Automated External Defibrillators.—Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services and other appropriate Federal agencies, shall promulgate regulations to—

(1) require that the owner of a vessel to which section 3507 applies install, and maintain in working order, automated external defibrillators on such vessel;

(2) require that such defibrillators be placed throughout such vessel in clearly designated locations;

(3) require that such defibrillators are available for passenger and crew access in the event of an emergency; and

(4) require that automated external defibrillators, or adjacent equipment, allow passengers and crew to easily contact medical staff of the vessel.

(b) Definition of Owner.—In this section, the term "owner" has the meaning given such term in section 3507.

(Added Pub. L. 117–14, §3(a), May 24, 2021, 135 Stat. 275.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

The date of enactment of this section, referred to in subsec. (a), is the date of enactment of Pub. L. 117–14, which was approved May 24, 2021.

### **CHAPTER 37—CARRIAGE OF LIQUID BULK DANGEROUS CARGOES** ###

Sec.
3701.Definitions.
3702.Application.
3703.Regulations.
3703a.Tank vessel construction standards.
3704.Coastwise trade vessels.
3705.Crude oil tanker minimum standards.
3706.Product carrier minimum standards.
3707.Tanker minimum standards.
3708.Self-propelled tank vessel minimum standards.
3709.Exemptions.
3710.Evidence of compliance by vessels of the United States.
3711.Evidence of compliance by foreign vessels.
3712.Notification of noncompliance.
3713.Prohibited acts.
3714.Inspection and examination.
3715.Lightering.
3716.Tank washings.
3717.Marine safety information system.
3718.Penalties.
3719.Reduction of oil spills from single hull non-self-propelled tank vessels.

#### Historical and Revision Notes ####

Chapter 37 consolidates the laws that are applicable to vessels that transport oil or hazardous material in bulk as cargo or cargo residue.

The history of Federal authority to carry out a tank vessel safety program begins with the enactment of the so-called Tank Vessel Act of 1936 which, as amended, is presently codified in section 391a of title 46, United States Code. The 1936 Act remained essentially the same until it was amended by the Ports and Waterways Safety Act of 1972. The 1972 amendment contained more specific standards for the protection of a tank vessel and its crew and added vessel standards to improve the quality of the marine environment. After a rash of tank vessel accidents during the latter part of 1976 and early 1977 within our territorial seas and in nearby coastal waters, there was an outpouring of public attention to the need to protect United States ports and waterways, for the safety of tank vessels, and for the protection of the marine environment. This led to the enactment of the Port and Tanker Safety Act of 1978, which provided broader and more extensive regulatory authority over areas already regulated and over many areas not previously regulated. It provided for improvements in the supervision and control of vessels of all types operating in the navigable waters of the United States, and in the safety of all tank vessels, foreign or domestic, that transport or transfer oil or hazardous cargoes in ports or places subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. The 1978 amendments also reflect, in part, certain tank vessel standards and requirements that have been accepted internationally, in particular those developed by the International Conference on Tanker Safety and Pollution Prevention held in London in February, 1978.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2006**—Pub. L. 109–304, §15(14), Oct. 6, 2006, 120 Stat. 1703, inserted "single hull" before "non-self-propelled" in item 3719.

**1996**—Pub. L. 104–324, title IX, §901(c), Oct. 19, 1996, 110 Stat. 3947, added item 3719.

**1990**—Pub. L. 101–380, title IV, §4115(c), Aug. 18, 1990, 104 Stat. 520, added item 3703a.

