
### §30111. Training and technical assistance for States ###

§30111. Training and technical assistance for States

The Attorney General, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Director of the United States Secret Service, the Executive Associate Director of Homeland Security Investigations, and nongovernmental and survivor stakeholders, shall create, compile, evaluate, and disseminate materials and information, and provide the necessary training and technical assistance, to assist States and units of local government in—

(1) investigating, prosecuting, pursuing, preventing, understanding, and mitigating the impact of—

(A) physical, sexual, and psychological abuse of cybercrime victims, including victims of human trafficking that is facilitated by interactive computer services;

(B) exploitation of cybercrime victims; and

(C) deprioritization of cybercrime; and

(2) assessing, addressing, and mitigating the physical and psychological trauma to victims of cybercrime.

(Pub. L. 117–347, title III, §324, Jan. 5, 2023, 136 Stat. 6207.)

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Definitions ####

For definition of "computer" as used in this section, see section 3 of Pub. L. 117–347, set out as a note under section 20145 of this title.

### **CHAPTER 303—PRISON RAPE ELIMINATION** ###

Sec.
30301.Findings.
30302.Purposes.
30303.National prison rape statistics, data, and research.
30304.Prison rape prevention and prosecution.
30305.Grants to protect inmates and safeguard communities.
30306.National Prison Rape Elimination Commission.
30307.Adoption and effect of national standards.
30308.Requirement that accreditation organizations adopt accreditation standards.
30309.Definitions.

