
### §5235. Authorization of additional appropriations ###

§5235. Authorization of additional appropriations

There are authorized to be appropriated for the Service, in addition to any sums otherwise authorized to be appropriated by any provision of law other than this section, $20,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1988, 1989, and 1990 for market development activities, including—

(1) expansion of the agricultural attache service;

(2) expansion of international trade policy activities of the Service;

(3) enhancement of the Service worldwide market information system;

(4) increasing the number of trade shows and exhibitions conducted by the Service and upgrading the quality of United States representation at trade shows and exhibitions; and

(5) developing markets for value-added beef, pork, and poultry products.

(Pub. L. 100–418, title IV, §4215, Aug. 23, 1988, 102 Stat. 1395.)

### **CHAPTER 84—NATIONAL NUTRITION MONITORING AND RELATED RESEARCH** ###

Sec.
5301.Congressional statement of purposes.
5302.Definitions.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—NUTRITION MONITORING AND RELATED RESEARCH ####

5311.Establishment of coordinated program.
5311a.Joint nutrition monitoring and related research activities.
5312.Functions of Secretaries.
5313.Development of comprehensive plan for National Nutrition Monitoring and Related Research Program.
5314.Implementation of comprehensive plan.
5315.Scientific research and development in support of coordinated program and comprehensive plan.
5316.Annual budget submission.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—NATIONAL NUTRITION MONITORING ADVISORY COUNCIL ####

5331.Structure of Council.
5332.Functions of Council.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—DIETARY GUIDANCE ####

5341.Establishment of dietary guidelines.
5342.Nutrition training report.

