
### §167. Trust status of lease payments ###

§167. Trust status of lease payments

#### (a) Definition of Secretary ####

In this section, the term "Secretary" means the Secretary of the Interior.

#### (b) Treatment of lease payments ####

#### (1) In general ####

Except as provided in paragraph (2) and at the request of the Indian tribe or individual Indian, any advance payments, bid deposits, or other earnest money received by the Secretary in connection with the review and Secretarial approval under any other Federal law (including regulations) of a sale, lease, permit, or any other conveyance of any interest in any trust or restricted land of any Indian tribe or individual Indian shall, upon receipt and prior to Secretarial approval of the contract or conveyance instrument, be held in the trust fund system for the benefit of the Indian tribe and individual Indian from whose land the funds were generated.

#### (2) Restriction ####

If the advance payment, bid deposit, or other earnest money received by the Secretary results from competitive bidding, upon selection of the successful bidder, only the funds paid by the successful bidder shall be held in the trust fund system.

#### (c) Use of funds ####

#### (1) In general ####

On the approval of the Secretary of a contract or other instrument for a sale, lease, permit, or any other conveyance described in subsection (b)(1), the funds held in the trust fund system and described in subsection (b), along with all income generated from the investment of those funds, shall be disbursed to the Indian tribe or individual Indian landowners.

#### (2) Administration ####

If a contract or other instrument for a sale, lease, permit, or any other conveyance described in subsection (b)(1) is not approved by the Secretary, the funds held in the trust fund system and described in subsection (b), along with all income generated from the investment of those funds, shall be paid to the party identified in, and in such amount and on such terms as set out in, the applicable regulations, advertisement, or other notice governing the proposed conveyance of the interest in the land at issue.

#### (d) Applicability ####

This section shall apply to any advance payment, bid deposit, or other earnest money received by the Secretary in connection with the review and Secretarial approval under any other Federal law (including regulations) of a sale, lease, permit, or any other conveyance of any interest in any trust or restricted land of any Indian tribe or individual Indian on or after December 18, 2018.

(Pub. L. 115–325, title II, §207, Dec. 18, 2018, 132 Stat. 4464.)

### **CHAPTER 5—PROTECTION OF INDIANS** ###

Sec.
171 to 173. Repealed.
174.Superintendence by President over tribes west of Mississippi.
175.United States attorneys to represent Indians.
176.Survey of reservations.
177.Purchases or grants of lands from Indians.
178.Fees on behalf of Indian parties in contests under public land laws.
179.Driving stock to feed on lands.
180.Settling on or surveying lands belonging to Indians by treaty.
181.Rights of white men marrying Indian women; tribal property.
182.Rights of Indian women marrying white men; tribal property.
183.Marriage of white men to Indian women; evidence.
184.Rights of children born of marriages between white men and Indian women.
185.Protection of Indians desiring civilized life.
186 to 189. Repealed or Omitted.
190.Sale of plants or tracts not needed for administrative or allotment purposes.
191.Repealed.
192.Sale by agents of cattle or horses not required.
193.Proceedings against goods seized for certain violations.
194.Trial of right of property; burden of proof.
195.Repealed.
196.Sale or other disposition of dead timber.
197.Disposition of dead timber on reservations in Minnesota.
198.Contagious and infectious diseases; quarantine.
199.Access to records of Five Civilized Tribes.
199a.Custody of records; Oklahoma Historical Society.
200.Report of offense or case of Indian incarcerated in agency jail.
201.Penalties; how recovered.
202.Inducing conveyances by Indians of trust interests in lands.

