
### §6155. Prohibition of expiration date ###

§6155. Prohibition of expiration date

#### (a) No automatic removal of numbers ####

Telephone numbers registered on the national "do-not-call" registry of the Telemarketing Sales Rule (16 CFR 310.4(b)(1)(iii)) since the establishment of the registry and telephone numbers registered on such registry after March 11, 2003, shall not be removed from such registry except as provided for in subsection (b) or upon the request of the individual to whom the telephone number is assigned.

#### (b) Removal of invalid, disconnected, and reassigned telephone numbers ####

The Federal Trade Commission shall periodically check telephone numbers registered on the national "do-not-call" registry against national or other appropriate databases and shall remove from such registry those telephone numbers that have been disconnected and reassigned. Nothing in this section prohibits the Federal Trade Commission from removing invalid telephone numbers from the registry at any time.

(Pub. L. 108–10, §5, as added Pub. L. 110–187, §2, Feb. 15, 2008, 122 Stat. 633.)

### **CHAPTER 88—INTERNATIONAL ANTITRUST ENFORCEMENT ASSISTANCE** ###

Sec.
6201.Disclosure to foreign antitrust authority of antitrust evidence.
6202.Investigations to assist foreign antitrust authority in obtaining antitrust evidence.
6203.Jurisdiction of district courts of United States.
6204.Limitations on authority.
6205.Exception to certain disclosure restrictions.
6206.Publication requirements applicable to antitrust mutual assistance agreements.
6207.Conditions on use of antitrust mutual assistance agreements.
6208.Limitations on judicial review.
6209.Preservation of existing authority.
6210.Report to Congress.
6211.Definitions.
6212.Authority to receive reimbursement.

