
### §7345. Revocation or denial of passport in case of certain tax delinquencies ###

§7345. Revocation or denial of passport in case of certain tax delinquencies

#### (a) In general ####

If the Secretary receives certification by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue that an individual has a seriously delinquent tax debt, the Secretary shall transmit such certification to the Secretary of State for action with respect to denial, revocation, or limitation of a passport pursuant to section 32101 of the FAST Act.

#### (b) Seriously delinquent tax debt ####

#### (1) In general ####

For purposes of this section, the term "seriously delinquent tax debt" means an unpaid, legally enforceable Federal tax liability of an individual—

(A) which has been assessed,

(B) which is greater than $50,000, and

(C) with respect to which—

(i) a notice of lien has been filed pursuant to section 6323 and the administrative rights under section 6320 with respect to such filing have been exhausted or have lapsed, or

(ii) a levy is made pursuant to section 6331.

#### (2) Exceptions ####

Such term shall not include—

(A) a debt that is being paid in a timely manner pursuant to an agreement to which the individual is party under section 6159 or 7122, and

(B) a debt with respect to which collection is suspended with respect to the individual—

(i) because a due process hearing under section 6330 is requested or pending, or

(ii) because an election under subsection (b) or (c) of section 6015 is made or relief under subsection (f) of such section is requested.

#### (c) Reversal of certification ####

#### (1) In general ####

In the case of an individual with respect to whom the Commissioner makes a certification under subsection (a), the Commissioner shall notify the Secretary (and the Secretary shall subsequently notify the Secretary of State) if such certification is found to be erroneous or if the debt with respect to such certification is fully satisfied or ceases to be a seriously delinquent tax debt by reason of subsection (b)(2).

#### (2) Timing of notice ####

#### (A) Full satisfaction of debt ####

In the case of a debt that has been fully satisfied or has become legally unenforceable, such notification shall be made not later than the date required for issuing the certificate of release of lien with respect to such debt under section 6325(a).

#### (B) Innocent spouse relief ####

In the case of an individual who makes an election under subsection (b) or (c) of section 6015, or requests relief under subsection (f) of such section, such notification shall be made not later than 30 days after any such election or request.

#### (C) Installment agreement or offer-in-compromise ####

In the case of an installment agreement under section 6159 or an offer-in-compromise under section 7122, such notification shall be made not later than 30 days after such agreement is entered into or such offer is accepted by the Secretary.

#### (D) Erroneous certification ####

In the case of a certification found to be erroneous, such notification shall be made as soon as practicable after such finding.

#### (d) Contemporaneous notice to individual ####

The Commissioner shall contemporaneously notify an individual of any certification under subsection (a), or any reversal of certification under subsection (c), with respect to such individual. Such notice shall include a description in simple and nontechnical terms of the right to bring a civil action under subsection (e).

#### (e) Judicial review of certification ####

#### (1) In general ####

After the Commissioner notifies an individual under subsection (d), the taxpayer may bring a civil action against the United States in a district court of the United States, or against the Commissioner in the Tax Court, to determine whether the certification was erroneous or whether the Commissioner has failed to reverse the certification. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the court first acquiring jurisdiction over such an action shall have sole jurisdiction.

#### (2) Determination ####

If the court determines that such certification was erroneous, then the court may order the Secretary to notify the Secretary of State that such certification was erroneous.

#### (f) Adjustment for inflation ####

In the case of a calendar year beginning after 2016, the dollar amount in subsection (b)(1)(B) shall be increased by an amount equal to—

(1) such dollar amount, multiplied by

(2) the cost-of-living adjustment determined under section 1(f)(3) for the calendar year, determined by substituting "calendar year 2015" for "calendar year 2016" in subparagraph (A)(ii) thereof.

If any amount as adjusted under the preceding sentence is not a multiple of $1,000, such amount shall be rounded to the nearest multiple of $1,000.

#### (g) Delegation of certification ####

A certification under subsection (a) or reversal of certification under subsection (c) may only be delegated by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue to the Deputy Commissioner for Services and Enforcement, or the Commissioner of an operating division, of the Internal Revenue Service.

(Added Pub. L. 114–94, div. C, title XXXII, §32101(a), Dec. 4, 2015, 129 Stat. 1729; amended Pub. L. 115–97, title I, §11002(d)(1)(RR), Dec. 22, 2017, 131 Stat. 2061; Pub. L. 115–141, div. U, title I, §103(a), Mar. 23, 2018, 132 Stat. 1169.)

#### Inflation Adjusted Items for Certain Years ####

For inflation adjustment of certain items in this section, see Revenue Procedures listed in a table under section 1 of this title.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

Section 32101 of the FAST Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is section 32101 of Pub. L. 114–94, which enacted this section and section 2714a of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse, and amended sections 6103, 6320, 6331, and 7508 of this title.

#### Amendments ####

**2018**—Subsec. (e)(1). Pub. L. 115–141, §103(a)(1), substituted ", or against the Commissioner in the Tax Court," for "or the Tax Court" and inserted at end "For purposes of the preceding sentence, the court first acquiring jurisdiction over such an action shall have sole jurisdiction."

Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 115–141, §103(a)(2), substituted "subsection (b)(1)(B)" for "subsection (a)" in introductory provisions.

**2017**—Subsec. (f)(2). Pub. L. 115–97 substituted "for 'calendar year 2016' in subparagraph (A)(ii)" for "for 'calendar year 1992' in subparagraph (B)".

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date of 2018 Amendment ####

Pub. L. 115–141, div. U, title I, §103(b), Mar. 23, 2018, 132 Stat. 1170, provided that: "The amendments made by this section [amending this section] shall take effect as if included in section 32101 of the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act [Pub. L. 114–94]."

#### Effective Date of 2017 Amendment ####

Amendment by Pub. L. 115–97 applicable to taxable years beginning after Dec. 31, 2017, see section 11002(e) of Pub. L. 115–97, set out as a note under section 1 of this title.

### **CHAPTER 76—JUDICIAL PROCEEDINGS** ###

SubchapterSec.[1](#CHAPTER76_1_target)
A.Civil actions by the United States7401
B.Proceedings by Taxpayers and Third Parties7421
C.The Tax Court7441
D.Court review of Tax Court decisions7481
E.Burden of proof7491

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**1998**—Pub. L. 105–206, title III, §3001(b), July 22, 1998, 112 Stat. 727, added item for subchapter E.

**1976**—Pub. L. 94–455, title XIX, §1952(n)(4)(B), Oct. 4, 1976, 90 Stat. 1846, struck out item for subchapter E "Miscellaneous provisions".

**1966**—Pub. L. 89–719, title I, §110(d)(3), Nov. 2, 1966, 80 Stat. 1145, substituted "Taxpayers and Third Parties" for "taxpayers" in item for subchapter B.

[1 Section numbers editorially supplied.](#CHAPTER76_1)

### **Subchapter A—Civil Actions by the United States** ###

Sec.
7401.Authorization.
7402.Jurisdiction of district courts.
7403.Action to enforce lien or to subject property to payment of tax.
7404.Authority to bring civil action for estate taxes.
7405.Action for recovery of erroneous refunds.
7406.Disposition of judgments and moneys recovered.
7407.Action to enjoin tax return preparers.
7408.Actions to enjoin specified conduct related to tax shelters and reportable transactions.
7409.Action to enjoin flagrant political expenditures of section 501(c)(3) organizations.
7410.Cross references.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2007**—Pub. L. 110–28, title VIII, §8246(a)(2)(I)(ii), May 25, 2007, 121 Stat. 202, substituted "tax return preparers" for "income tax return preparers" in item 7407.

**2004**—Pub. L. 108–357, title VIII, §820(b)(2), Oct. 22, 2004, 118 Stat. 1585, added item 7408 and struck out former item 7408 "Action to enjoin promoters of abusive tax shelters, etc."

**1987**—Pub. L. 100–203, title X, §10713(a)(2), Dec. 22, 1987, 101 Stat. 1330–469, added item 7409 and redesignated former item 7409 as 7410.

**1982**—Pub. L. 97–248, title III, §321(b), Sept. 3, 1982, 96 Stat. 612, added item 7408 and redesignated former item 7408 as 7409.

**1976**—Pub. L. 94–455, title XII, §1203(i)(4), Oct. 4, 1976, 90 Stat. 1695, added item 7407 and redesignated former item 7407 as 7408.

