
### §1178. System and procedures for tracking separations resulting from refusal to participate in anthrax vaccine immunization program ###

§1178. System and procedures for tracking separations resulting from refusal to participate in anthrax vaccine immunization program

The Secretary of each military department shall establish a system for tracking, recording, and reporting separations of members of the armed forces under the Secretary's jurisdiction that result from procedures initiated as a result of a refusal to participate in the anthrax vaccine immunization program.

(Added Pub. L. 106–398, §1 [[div. A], title VII, §751(a)(1)], Oct. 30, 2000, 114 Stat. 1654, 1654A–193; amended Pub. L. 111–383, div. A, title VII, §721, Jan. 7, 2011, 124 Stat. 4251.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2011**—Pub. L. 111–383 struck out subsec. (a) designation and heading before "The Secretary" and struck out subsec. (b). Text of subsec. (b) read as follows: "The Secretary of Defense shall consolidate the information recorded under the system described in subsection (a) and shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives not later than April 1 of each year a report on such information. Each such report shall include a description of—

"(1) the number of members separated, categorized by military department, grade, and active-duty or reserve status; and

"(2) any other information determined appropriate by the Secretary."

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Comptroller General Report ####

Pub. L. 106–398, §1 [[div. A], title VII, §751(d)], Oct. 30, 2000, 114 Stat. 1654, 1654A–194, directed the Comptroller General, not later than Apr. 1, 2002, to submit to committees of Congress a report on the effect of the Department of Defense anthrax vaccine immunization program on the recruitment and retention of active duty and reserve military personnel and civilian personnel of the Department of Defense.

### **CHAPTER 60—SEPARATION OF REGULAR OFFICERS FOR SUBSTANDARD PERFORMANCE OF DUTY OR FOR CERTAIN OTHER REASONS** ###

Sec.
1181.Authority to establish procedures to consider the separation of officers for substandard performance of duty and for certain other reasons.
1182.Boards of inquiry.
[1183.Repealed.]
1184.Removal of officer: action by Secretary upon recommendation of board of inquiry.
1185.Rights and procedures.
1186.Officer considered for removal: voluntary retirement or discharge.
1187.Officers eligible to serve on boards.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**1998**—Pub. L. 105–261, div. A, title V, §503(c)(2), Oct. 17, 1998, 112 Stat. 2004, struck out item 1183 "Boards of review" and substituted "inquiry" for "review" in item 1184.

**1984**—Pub. L. 98–525, title V, §524(b)(2), Oct. 19, 1984, 98 Stat. 2524, substituted "Authority to establish procedures to consider the separation of officers for substandard performance of duty and for certain other reasons" for "Authority to convene boards of officers to consider separation of officers for substandard performance of duty or for certain other reasons" in item 1181.

