
### §4912. Tax on disqualifying lobbying expenditures of certain organizations ###

§4912. Tax on disqualifying lobbying expenditures of certain organizations

#### (a) Tax on organization ####

If an organization to which this section applies is not described in section 501(c)(3) for any taxable year by reason of making lobbying expenditures, there is hereby imposed a tax on the lobbying expenditures of such organization for such taxable year equal to 5 percent of the amount of such expenditures. The tax imposed by this subsection shall be paid by the organization.

#### (b) On management ####

If tax is imposed under subsection (a) on the lobbying expenditures of any organization, there is hereby imposed on the agreement of any organization manager to the making of any such expenditures, knowing that such expenditures are likely to result in the organization not being described in section 501(c)(3), a tax equal to 5 percent of the amount of such expenditures, unless such agreement is not willful and is due to reasonable cause. The tax imposed by this subsection shall be paid by any manager who agreed to the making of the expenditures.

#### (c) Organizations to which section applies ####

#### (1) In general ####

Except as provided in paragraph (2), this section shall apply to any organization which was exempt (or was determined by the Secretary to be exempt) from taxation under section 501(a) by reason of being an organization described in section 501(c)(3).

#### (2) Exceptions ####

This section shall not apply to any organization—

(A) to which an election under section 501(h) applies,

(B) which is a disqualified organization (within the meaning of section 501(h)(5)), or

(C) which is a private foundation.

#### (d) Definitions ####

#### (1) Lobbying expenditures ####

The term "lobbying expenditure" means any amount paid or incurred by the organization in carrying on propaganda, or otherwise attempting to influence legislation.

#### (2) Organization manager ####

The term "organization manager" has the meaning given to such term by section 4955(f)(2).

#### (3) Joint and several liability ####

If more than 1 person is liable under subsection (b), all such persons shall be jointly and severally liable under such subsection.

(Added Pub. L. 100–203, title X, §10714(a), Dec. 22, 1987, 101 Stat. 1330–470.)

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date ####

Pub. L. 100–203, title X, §10714(e), Dec. 22, 1987, 101 Stat. 1330–472, provided that: "The amendments made by this section [enacting this section and amending sections 6501 and 7454 of this title] shall apply to taxable years beginning after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 22, 1987]."

### **CHAPTER 42—PRIVATE FOUNDATIONS; AND CERTAIN OTHER TAX-EXEMPT ORGANIZATIONS** ###

SubchapterSec.[1](#CHAPTER42_1_target)
A.Private foundations4940
B.Black lung benefit trusts4951
C.Political expenditures of section 501(c)(3) organizations4955
D.Failure by certain charitable organizations to meet certain qualification requirements4958
E.Abatement of first and second tier taxes in certain cases4961
F.Tax shelter transactions4965
G.Donor advised funds4966
H.Excise tax based on investment income of private colleges and universities4968

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2017**—Pub. L. 115–97, title I, §13701(b), Dec. 22, 2017, 131 Stat. 2168, added item for subchapter H.

**2006**—Pub. L. 109–280, title XII, §1231(b)(2), Aug. 17, 2006, 120 Stat. 1098, which directed the addition of item for subchapter G to the analysis for chapter 42 without specifying the act to be amended, was executed by adding the item to this analysis, which is for chapter 42 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

Pub. L. 109–222, title V, §516(a)(2), May 17, 2006, 120 Stat. 371, added item for subchapter F.

**1996**—Pub. L. 104–168, title XIII, §1311(c)(6), July 30, 1996, 110 Stat. 1478, struck out item for subchapter D "Abatement of first and second-tier taxes in certain cases" and added items for subchapters D and E.

**1987**—Pub. L. 100–203, title X, §10712(c)(7), (9), Dec. 22, 1987, 101 Stat. 1330–467, substituted in chapter heading "AND CERTAIN OTHER TAX-EXEMPT ORGANIZATIONS" for "BLACK LUNG BENEFIT TRUSTS", struck out item for subchapter C "Abatement of first and second tier taxes in certain cases", and added items for subchapters C and D.

**1984**—Pub. L. 98–369, div. A, title III, §305(b)(3), July 18, 1984, 98 Stat. 784, substituted "Abatement of first and second tier taxes in certain cases" for "Abatement of second tier taxes where there is correction during correction period" in item for subchapter C.

**1980**—Pub. L. 96–596, §2(c)(3), Dec. 24, 1980, 94 Stat. 3474, added item for subchapter C.

**1978**—Pub. L. 95–227, §4(c)(2)(A), Feb. 10, 1978, 92 Stat. 22, in chapter heading inserted "; BLACK LUNG BENEFIT TRUSTS" after "FOUNDATIONS", and added items for subchapters A and B.

**1969**—Pub. L. 91–172, title I, §101(b), Dec. 30, 1969, 83 Stat. 498, added chapter heading "PRIVATE FOUNDATIONS".

[1 Section numbers editorially supplied.](#CHAPTER42_1)

### **Subchapter A—Private Foundations** ###

Sec.
4940.Excise tax based on investment income.
4941.Taxes on self-dealing.
4942.Taxes on failure to distribute income.
4943.Taxes on excess business holdings.
4944.Taxes on investments which jeopardize charitable purpose.
4945.Taxes on taxable expenditures.
4946.Definitions and special rules.
4947.Application of taxes to certain nonexempt trusts.
4948.Application of taxes and denial of exemption with respect to certain foreign organizations.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**1978**—Pub. L. 95–227, §4(c)(2)(A), Feb. 10, 1978, 92 Stat. 22, added subchapter A heading and designated sections 4940 to 4948 as subchapter A.

**1969**—Pub. L. 91–172, title I, §101(b), Dec. 30, 1969, 83 Stat. 498, added analysis of sections.

