
### §12605. Presentation of United States flag: members transferred from an active status or discharged after completion of eligibility for retired pay ###

§12605. Presentation of United States flag: members transferred from an active status or discharged after completion of eligibility for retired pay

(a) Presentation of Flag.—Upon the transfer from an active status or discharge of a Reserve who has completed the years of service required for eligibility for retired pay under chapter 1223 of this title, the Secretary concerned shall present a United States flag to the member.

(b) Multiple Presentations Not Authorized.—A member is not eligible for presentation of a flag under subsection (a) if the member has previously been presented a flag under this section or any provision of law providing for the presentation of a United States flag incident to release from active service for retirement.

(c) No Cost to Recipient.—The presentation of a flag under this section shall be at no cost to the recipient.

(Added Pub. L. 106–65, div. A, title VI, §652(a)(1), Oct. 5, 1999, 113 Stat. 664.)

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date ####

Pub. L. 106–65, div. A, title VI, §652(d), Oct. 5, 1999, 113 Stat. 665, provided that: "Section 12605 of title 10, United States Code (as added by subsection (a)), section 213 of the Public Health Service Act [42 U.S.C. 214] (as added by subsection (b)), and section 25 of the Coast and Geodetic Survey Commissioned Officers' Act of 1948 [33 U.S.C. 853v] (as added by subsection (c)) shall apply with respect to releases from service described in those sections on or after October 1, 1999."

### **CHAPTER 1219—STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES FOR RETENTION AND PROMOTION** ###

Sec.
12641.Standards and procedures: Secretary to prescribe.
12642.Standards and qualifications: result of failure to comply with.
12643.Boards for appointment, promotion, and certain other purposes: composition.
12644.Members physically not qualified for active duty: discharge or transfer to retired status.
12645.Commissioned officers: retention until completion of required service.
12646.Commissioned officers: retention of after completing 18 or more, but less than 20, years of service.
12647.Commissioned officers: retention in active status while assigned to Selective Service System or serving as United States property and fiscal officers.

