
### §2507. Entries and final proofs, made out of proper district, confirmed ###

§2507. Entries and final proofs, made out of proper district, confirmed

Whenever it shall appear to the Secretary of the Interior, or such officer as he may designate, that an error was made prior to March 9, 1904, by the officers of any local land office in receiving any application, declaratory statement, entry, or final proof under the homestead or other land laws, and that there was no fraud practiced by the entryman, and that there are no prior adverse claimants to the land described in the entry, and that no other reason why the title should not vest in the entryman exists, except that said application, declaratory statement, entry, or proof was not made within the land district in which the lands applied for were situated, as provided by the Act of March 11, 1902, such entry or proof shall be confirmed.

(Mar. 9, 1904, ch. 503, §1, 33 Stat. 64; 1946 Reorg. Plan No. 3, §403, eff. July 16, 1946, 11 F.R. 7876, 60 Stat. 1100.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

Act of March 11, 1902, referred to in text, probably means act Mar. 11, 1902, ch. 182, 32 Stat. 63, which was classified to section 254 of this title, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 94–579, title VII, §702, Oct. 21, 1976, 90 Stat. 2787. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

#### Codification ####

Section was formerly classified to section 1167 of this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date ####

Act Mar. 9, 1904, ch. 503, §2, 33 Stat. 64, provided: "That this Act [enacting this section] shall be in force from and after its passage and approval."

#### **Executive Documents** ####

#### Transfer of Functions ####

For transfer of functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of Department of the Interior, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Interior, with power to delegate, see Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1950, §§1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, 64 Stat. 1262, set out under section 1451 of this title.

"Secretary of the Interior, or such officer as he may designate," substituted for "Commissioner of the General Land Office" on authority of section 403 of Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1946. See note set out under section 1 of this title.

### **CHAPTER 44—OREGON AND CALIFORNIA RAILROAD AND COOS BAY WAGON ROAD GRANT LANDS** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—ADMINISTRATION ####

Sec.
2601.Conservation management by Department of the Interior; permanent forest production; sale of timber; subdivision.
2602.Cooperative agreements with other agencies or private owners for coordinated administration.
2603.Leasing of lands for grazing; disposition of moneys; rules and regulations covering grazing lands.
2604.Rules and regulations generally; consultation and agreements with other agencies regarding fire regulations.
2605.Oregon and California land-grant fund; annual distribution of moneys.
2606.Oregon and California Railroad revested lands and Coos Bay Wagon Road reconveyed lands.
2607.Protection of Oregon and California Railroad grant lands.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—DISPOSITION OF FUNDS ####

2621.Coos Bay Wagon Road grant fund; annual payments; appraisal and assessment of land and timber; computation of payments.
2622.Appraisal of land and timber; manner and frequency; computation of amounts upon basis of last appraisement; deduction of appraisement expenses.
2623.Additional sum from surplus for meeting payments due from insufficient annual receipts; maximum aggregate of decennial payments; covering of excess receipts into general fund of Treasury.
2624.Amount available for administration of Coos Bay Wagon Road grant lands under subchapter I; covering of unused receipts into general fund of Treasury.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDICTION ####

2631.Unselected and unpatented odd-numbered sections as revested grant lands; administration as national-forest lands; revenues; prohibition against disposition or exchange.
2632.Exchange of jurisdiction between Secretaries; conditions; publication in Federal Register.
2633.Designation of national-forest areas within counties; disposition of revenues; approval by court.
2634.Appropriations to carry out sections 2632 and 2633.

### SUBCHAPTER I—ADMINISTRATION ###

