
### §10371. Water prediction and forecasting ###

§10371. Water prediction and forecasting

#### (a) National Water Center ####

#### (1) Establishment ####

#### (A) In general ####

The Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere shall establish a center—

(i) to serve as the research and operational center of excellence for hydrologic analyses, forecasting, and related decision support services within the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the National Weather Service; and

(ii) to facilitate collaboration across Federal and State departments and agencies, academia, and the private sector on matters relating to water resources.

#### (B) Designation ####

The center established under subparagraph (A) shall be known as the "National Water Center".

#### (2) Functions ####

The functions of the National Water Center shall include the following:

(A) Improving understanding of water resources, stakeholder needs regarding water resources, and identifying science and services gaps relating to water resources.

(B) Developing and implementing advanced water resources modeling capabilities.

(C) Facilitating the transition of hydrologic research into operations.

(D) Delivering analyses, forecasts, and inundation information and guidance for all hydrologic events in the United States, including flash flooding, riverine flooding, and water resources outlooks.

(E) In coordination with warning coordination meteorologists, providing decision-support services to inform emergency management and water resources decisions.

#### (b) National instructions ####

#### (1) In general ####

Not later than one year after December 31, 2020, the Under Secretary, acting through the Director of the National Weather Service, shall make public an operations and services policy directive for the National Water Center.

#### (2) Contents ####

The directive required by paragraph (1) shall include national instructions to perform the functions of the National Water Center, including the following:

(A) Operational staff responsibilities.

(B) Guidelines for content, format, and provision of hydrologic and inundation products developed by the National Water Center.

(C) Procedures for cooperation and coordination between the National Water Center, the National Weather Service National Centers for Environmental Prediction, National Weather Service River Forecast Centers, and National Weather Service Weather Forecast Offices.

#### (c) Total water prediction ####

The Under Secretary, acting through the Director of the Office of Water Prediction of the National Weather Service, shall—

(1) initiate and lead research and development activities to develop operational water resource prediction and related decision support products;

(2) collaborate with, and provide decision support regarding total water prediction to—

(A) the relevant Federal agencies represented on the National Science and Technology Council, Committee on Environment, Natural Resources, and Sustainability and the Subcommittee on Disaster Reduction;

(B) State water resource agencies; and

(C) State and local emergency management agencies; and

(3) in carrying out the responsibilities described in paragraphs (1) and (2), collaboratively develop capabilities necessary for total water predictive capacity, including observations, modeling, data management, supercomputing, social science, and communications.

#### (d) Authorization of appropriations ####

There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out the activities under this section amounts as follows:

(1) $44,500,000 for fiscal year 2021.

(2) $45,000,000 for fiscal year 2022.

(3) $45,500,000 for fiscal year 2023.

(4) $46,000,000 for fiscal year 2024.

#### (e) Derivation of funds ####

Funds to carry out this section shall be derived from amounts authorized to be appropriated to the National Weather Service and the National Ocean Service that are enacted after December 31, 2020.

(Pub. L. 116–271, title III, §301, Dec. 31, 2020, 134 Stat. 3347.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

Section was enacted as part of the Coordinated Ocean Observations and Research Act of 2020, and not as part of subtitle F of title IX of Pub. L. 111–11 which comprises this chapter.

### **CHAPTER 110—FAMILY VIOLENCE PREVENTION AND SERVICES** ###

Sec.
10401.Short title; purpose.
10402.Definitions.
10403.Authorization of appropriations.
10404.Authority of Secretary.
10405.Allotment of funds.
10406.Formula grants to States.
10407.State application.
10408.Subgrants and uses of funds.
10409.Grants for Indian tribes.
10410.National resource centers and training and technical assistance centers.
10411.Grants to State Domestic Violence Coalitions.
10412.Specialized services for abused parents and their children.
10413.National domestic violence hotline grant.
10414.Domestic Violence Prevention Enhancement and Leadership Through Alliances (DELTA).
10415 to 10421. Repealed, Tranferred, or Omitted.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

The Family Violence Prevention and Services Act, comprising this chapter, was originally enacted by Pub. L. 98–457, title III, Oct. 9, 1984, 98 Stat. 1757, and amended by Pub. L. 100–294, title III, Apr. 25, 1988, 102 Stat. 124; Pub. L. 102–295, title III, §§302–309(a), 310–321, May 28, 1992, 106 Stat. 201–210; Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, §§40211, 40241, 40251, 40261, 40271, 40272, Sept. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 1925, 1934–1937; Pub. L. 104–208, div. A, title I, §101(e) [title II, §213], Sept. 30, 1996, 110 Stat. 3009–233, 3009–254; Pub. L. 104–235, title II, §§201–203, Oct. 3, 1996, 110 Stat. 3089; Pub. L. 105–392, title IV, §407(a), Nov. 13, 1998, 112 Stat. 3589; Pub. L. 106–386, div. B, title II, §§1202–1204, title IV, §1403, Oct. 28, 2000, 114 Stat. 1505–1507, 1514; Pub. L. 108–36, title IV, §§401–415, June 25, 2003, 117 Stat. 825–830; Pub. L. 109–162, title II, §206, Jan. 5, 2006, 119 Stat. 3002. Such Act is shown herein, however, as having been added by Pub. L. 111–320, title II, §201, Dec. 20, 2010, 124 Stat. 3484, without reference to such intervening amendments because of the extensive revision of the Act's provisions by Pub. L. 111–320.

