
### §12108. Enlisted members: discharge or retirement for years of service or for age ###

§12108. Enlisted members: discharge or retirement for years of service or for age

Each reserve enlisted member of the Army, Navy, Air Force, or Marine Corps who is in an active status and has reached the maximum years of service or age prescribed by the Secretary concerned shall—

(1) be transferred to the Retired Reserve if the member is qualified for such transfer and does not request (in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary concerned) not to be transferred to the Retired Reserve; or

(2) be discharged if the member is not qualified for transfer to the Retired Reserve or has requested (in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary concerned) not to be so transferred.

(Added Pub. L. 107–107, div. A, title V, §517(f)(1), Dec. 28, 2001, 115 Stat. 1095.)

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date ####

Section effective on the first day of the first month that begins more than 180 days after Dec. 28, 2001, see section 517(g) of Pub. L. 107–107, set out as an Effective Date of 2001 Amendment note under section 10154 of this title.

### **CHAPTER 1205—APPOINTMENT OF RESERVE OFFICERS** ###

Sec.
12201.Reserve officers: qualifications for appointment.
12202.Commissioned officer grades.
12203.Commissioned officers: appointment, how made; term.
12204.Commissioned officers: original appointment; limitation.
12205.Commissioned officers: appointment; educational requirement.
12206.Commissioned officers: appointment of former commissioned officers.
12207.Commissioned officers: service credit upon original appointment.
12208.Officers: appointment upon transfer.
12209.Officer candidates: enlisted Reserves.
12210.Attending Physician to the Congress: reserve grade.
12211.Officers: Army National Guard of the United States.
12212.Officers: Air National Guard of the United States.
12213.Officers; Army Reserve: transfer from Army National Guard of the United States.
12214.Officers; Air Force Reserve: transfer from Air National Guard of the United States.
12215.Commissioned officers: reserve grade of adjutants general and assistant adjutants general.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2006**—Pub. L. 109–364, div. A, title V, §507(a)(2)(C), Oct. 17, 2006, 120 Stat. 2180, struck out "while so serving" after "reserve grade" in item 12210.

**1996**—Pub. L. 104–106, div. A, title XV, §1501(b)(11)(B), (13)(B), Feb. 10, 1996, 110 Stat. 496, substituted "Reserve officers: qualifications" for "Qualifications" in item 12201 and inserted "the" after "National Guard of" in items 12211, 12212, 12213, and 12214.

