
### §14104. Measurement to determine application of a law ###

§14104. Measurement to determine application of a law

(a) When the application of a law of the United States to a vessel depends on the vessel's tonnage, the vessel shall be measured under this part.

(b) If a statute allows for an alternate tonnage to be prescribed under this section, the Secretary may prescribe it by regulation. Any such regulation shall be considered to be an interpretive regulation for purposes of section 553 of title 5. Until an alternate tonnage is prescribed, the statutorily established tonnage shall apply to vessels measured under chapter 143 or chapter 145 of this title.

(c) The head of each Federal agency shall ensure that regulations issued by the agency that specify particular tonnages comply with the alternate tonnages implemented by the Secretary.

(Pub. L. 99–509, title V, §5101(3), Oct. 21, 1986, 100 Stat. 1920; Pub. L. 104–324, title VII, §702, Oct. 19, 1996, 110 Stat. 3933.)

#### Historical and Revision Notes ####

#### *Revised section 14104* ####

Source: Section (U.S. Code) 46 App. U.S.C. 71.

Section 14104 requires that a vessel be measured under Part J of this subtitle when the application of a U.S. law to the vessel depends on its tonnage.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**1996**—Pub. L. 104–324 designated existing provisions as subsec. (a) and added subsecs. (b) and (c).

### **CHAPTER 143—CONVENTION MEASUREMENT** ###

Sec.
14301.Application.
14302.Measurement.
14303.Tonnage Certificate.
14304.Remeasurement.
14305.Optional regulatory measurement.
14306.Reciprocity for foreign vessels.
14307.Inspection of foreign vessels.

#### Historical and Revision Notes ####

Chapter 143 provides implementing legislation for the International Convention on Tonnage Measurement of Ships (Convention) which came into effect in the United States on February 10, 1983. Chapter 143, therefore, is based primarily on the Convention, not on provisions in existing U.S. law.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2010**—Pub. L. 111–281, title III, §303(e)(3), Oct. 15, 2010, 124 Stat. 2925, substituted "Tonnage Certificate" for "International Tonnage Certificate (1969)" in item 14303.

