
### §2027. Annual review by Secretary of State of programs and projects of the International Atomic Energy Agency; United States opposition to certain programs and projects of the Agency ###

§2027. Annual review by Secretary of State of programs and projects of the International Atomic Energy Agency; United States opposition to certain programs and projects of the Agency

#### (a) Annual review ####

#### (1) In general ####

The Secretary shall undertake a comprehensive annual review of all programs and projects of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) in the countries described in section 2227(a) of this title and shall determine if such programs and projects are consistent with United States nuclear nonproliferation and safety goals.

#### (2) Report ####

Not later than one year after September 30, 2002, and on an annual basis thereafter for five years, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report containing the results of the review under paragraph (1).

#### (b) Opposition to certain programs and projects of International Atomic Energy Agency ####

The Secretary shall direct the United States representative to the International Atomic Energy Agency to oppose programs of the Agency that are determined by the Secretary under the review conducted under subsection (a)(1) to be inconsistent with nuclear nonproliferation and safety goals of the United States.

(Pub. L. 107–228, div. B, title XIII, §1343, Sept. 30, 2002, 116 Stat. 1452.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

Section was enacted as part of the Iran Nuclear Proliferation Prevention Act of 2002, and also as part of the Security Assistance Act of 2002 and the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 2003, and not as part of the International Atomic Energy Agency Participation Act of 1957 which comprises this chapter.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Definitions ####

For definition of "Secretary" as used in this section, see section 3 of Pub. L. 107–228, set out as a note under section 2651 of this title.

### **CHAPTER 29—CULTURAL, TECHNICAL, AND EDUCATIONAL CENTERS** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—CENTER BETWEEN EAST AND WEST ####

Sec.
2051 to 2053. Repealed.
2054.Statement of purpose.
2055.Duties of Secretary of State; establishment and operation of educational institution; grants, fellowships, and scholarships; availability of facilities.
2056.Administration.
2057.Authorization of appropriations.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—WESTERN HEMISPHERIC CENTER ####

2071, 2072. Repealed.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—DANTE B. FASCELL NORTH-SOUTH CENTER ####

2075.Center for Cultural and Technical Interchange Between North and South.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY ####

2077.International University for the Americas.
#### SUBCHAPTER V—INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR MIDDLE EASTERN-WESTERN DIALOGUE ####

2078.International Center for Middle Eastern-Western Dialogue Trust Fund.

### SUBCHAPTER I—CENTER BETWEEN EAST AND WEST ###

