
### §6483. Sense of Congress regarding national security strategy to promote religious freedom through United States foreign policy ###

§6483. Sense of Congress regarding national security strategy to promote religious freedom through United States foreign policy

It is the sense of Congress that the annual national security strategy report of the President required under section 3043 of title 50—

(1) should promote international religious freedom as a foreign policy and national security priority; and

(2) should articulate that promotion of the right to freedom of religion is a strategy that—

(A) protects other, related human rights, and advances democracy outside the United States; and

(B) makes clear its importance to United States foreign policy goals of stability, security, development, and diplomacy;

(3) should be a guide for the strategies and activities of relevant Federal agencies; and

(4) should inform the Department of Defense quadrennial defense review under section 118 [1](#6483_1_target) of title 10 and the Department of State Quadrennial Diplomacy and Development Review.

(Pub. L. 105–292, title VII, §703, as added Pub. L. 114–281, title VI, §601, Dec. 16, 2016, 130 Stat. 1439.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

Section 118 of title 10, referred to in par. (4), was repealed by Pub. L. 114–328, div. A, title IX, §941(b)(1), Dec. 23, 2016, 130 Stat. 2367. Subsequently, a new section 118 of Title 10, Armed Forces, related to annual report on major weapons systems sustainment, was added by Pub. L. 116–92, div. A, title III, §351(a)(1), Dec. 20, 2019, 133 Stat. 1319. For provisions related to national defense strategy similar to those contained in former section 118 of Title 10 prior to repeal, see section 113(g) of Title 10.

[1 See References in Text note below.](#6483_1)

### **CHAPTER 74—FOREIGN AFFAIRS AGENCIES CONSOLIDATION** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ####

Sec.
6501.Purposes.
6502.Definitions.
6503.Report on budgetary cost savings resulting from reorganization.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—UNITED STATES ARMS CONTROL AND DISARMAMENT AGENCY ####

#### Part A—Abolition and Transfer of Functions ####

6511.Abolition of United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency.
6512.Transfer of functions to Secretary of State.
#### Part B—Miscellaneous Provisions ####

6521.References.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY ####

#### Part A—Abolition and Transfer of Functions ####

6531.Abolition of United States Information Agency.
6532.Transfer of functions.
6533.Abolition of Office of Inspector General of United States Information Agency and transfer of functions.
#### Part B—International Broadcasting ####

6541.Congressional findings and declaration of purpose.
6542.Transfer of broadcasting related funds, property, and personnel.
6543.Savings provisions.
6544.Report on privatization of RFE/RL, Incorporated.

#### Part C—Conforming Amendments ####

6551.References.
6552.Application of certain laws.
6553.Continuation of United States Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION AGENCY ####

#### Part A—Abolition and Transfer of Functions ####

6561.Abolition of United States International Development Cooperation Agency.
6562.Transfer of functions and authorities.
6563.Status of AID.
#### Part B—Miscellaneous Provisions ####

6571.References.
#### SUBCHAPTER V—AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ####

#### Part A—Reorganization and Transfer of Functions ####

6581.Reorganization of Agency for International Development.
#### Part B—Authorities of Secretary of State ####

6591."United States assistance" defined.
6592.Administrator of AID reporting to Secretary of State.
6593.Assistance programs coordination and oversight.
#### SUBCHAPTER VI—TRANSITION ####

#### Part A—Reorganization Plan ####

6601.Reorganization plan and report.
#### Part B—Reorganization Authority ####

6611.Reorganization authority.
6612.Transfer and allocation of appropriations.
6613.Transfer, appointment, and assignment of personnel.
6614.Incidental transfers.
6615.Savings provisions.
6616.Authority of Secretary of State to facilitate transition.
6617.Final report.

### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL PROVISIONS ###

