
### §70710. Reporting requirements and termination ###

§70710. Reporting requirements and termination

(a) Interim Reports.—A Commission may submit to the President and Congress interim reports containing such findings, conclusions, and recommendations for corrective actions as have been agreed to by a majority of Commission members.

(b) Final Report.—A Commission shall submit to the President and Congress, and make concurrently available to the public, a final report containing such findings, conclusions, and recommendations for corrective actions as have been agreed to by a majority of Commission members. Such report shall include any minority views or opinions not reflected in the majority report.

(c) Termination.—

(1) In general.—A Commission, and all the authorities of this chapter with respect to that Commission, shall terminate 60 days after the date on which the final report is submitted under subsection (b).

(2) Administrative activities before termination.—A Commission may use the 60-day period referred to in paragraph (1) for the purpose of concluding its activities, including providing testimony to committees of Congress concerning its reports and disseminating the final report.

(Pub. L. 111–314, §3, Dec. 18, 2010, 124 Stat. 3436.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 70710 | 42 U.S.C. 16850. | Pub. L. 109–155, title VIII, §830, Dec. 30, 2005, 119 Stat. 2944. |

### **CHAPTER 709—INTERNATIONAL SPACE STATION** ###

Sec.
70901.Peaceful uses of space station.
70902.Allocation of International Space Station research budget.
70903.International Space Station research.
70904.International Space Station completion.
70905.National laboratory designation.
70906.International Space Station National Laboratory Advisory Committee.
70907.Maintaining use through at least 2030.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2022**—Pub. L. 117–167, div. B, title VII, §10815(d)(2), Aug. 9, 2022, 136 Stat. 1738, substituted "Maintaining use through at least 2030." for "Maintaining use through at least 2024." in item 70907.

**2015**—Pub. L. 114–90, title I, §114(b)(5)(B), Nov. 25, 2015, 129 Stat. 716, substituted "Maintaining use through at least 2024." for "Maintaining use through at least 2020." in item 70907.

