
### §358. Repeal of statutory provisions relating to survey, classification, and allotments which provide for repayment out of Indian moneys ###

§358. Repeal of statutory provisions relating to survey, classification, and allotments which provide for repayment out of Indian moneys

Any and all provisions contained in any Act passed prior to March 7, 1928, for the survey, resurvey, classification, and allotment of lands in severalty under the provisions of the Act of February 8, 1887 (24 Stat. 388), which provide for the repayment of funds appropriated proportionately out of any Indian moneys held in trust or otherwise by the United States and available by law for such reimbursable purposes, are repealed: *Provided further*, That the repeal shall not affect any funds authorized to be reimbursed by any special Act of Congress wherein a particular or special fund is mentioned from which reimbursement shall be made.

(Mar. 7, 1928, ch. 137, §1, 45 Stat. 206.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

Act of February 7, 1887, referred to in text, is popularly known as the Indian General Allotment Act. For classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 331 of this title and Tables.

### **CHAPTER 10—DESCENT AND DISTRIBUTION; HEIRS OF ALLOTTEE** ###

Sec.
371.Descent of land.
372.Ascertainment of heirs of deceased allottees; settlement of estates; sale of lands; deposit of Indian moneys.
372–1.Repealed.
372–2.Indian probate judges.
372a.Heirs by adoption.
373.Disposal by will of allotments held under trust.
373a.Disposition of trust or restricted estate of intestate without heirs; successor tribe; sale of land.
373b.Restricted estate or homestead on the public domain.
373c.Sections 373a and 373b as inapplicable to certain Indians.
374.Attendance of witnesses.
375.Determination of heirship of deceased members of Five Civilized Tribes.
375a.Jurisdiction of Secretary of the Interior over probate and distribution of estates not exceeding $2,500.
375b.Repealed.
375c.Disbursement of sums not exceeding $500 to heirs or legatees.
375d.Disposition of estates of intestate members of Cherokee, Chickasaw, Choctaw, and Seminole Nations of Oklahoma dying without heirs.
376.Oaths in investigations.
377.Repealed.
378.Partition of allotment among heirs; patents.
379.Sale of allotted lands by heirs.
380.Lease of inherited allotments by superintendent.

