
### §3503. "Antitrust law" defined ###

§3503. "Antitrust law" defined

As used in this chapter, the term "antitrust law" means the Sherman Act (15 U.S.C. 1 et seq.), the Clayton Act (15 U.S.C. 12 et seq.), and the Federal Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.).

(Pub. L. 96–308, §5, July 9, 1980, 94 Stat. 939.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

The Sherman Act (15 U.S.C. 1 et seq.), referred to in text, is act July 2, 1890, ch. 647, 26 Stat. 209, which is classified to sections 1 to 7 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1 of this title and Tables.

The Clayton Act (15 U.S.C. 12 et seq.), referred to in text, is act Oct. 15, 1914, ch. 323, 38 Stat. 730, which is classified generally to sections 12, 13, 14 to 19, 21, and 22 to 27 of this title, and sections 52 and 53 of Title 29, Labor. For further details and complete classification of this Act to the Code, see References in Text note set out under section 12 of this title and Tables.

The Federal Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.), referred to in text, is act Sept. 26, 1914, ch. 311, 38 Stat. 717, which is classified generally to subchapter I (§41 et seq.) of chapter 2 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 58 of this title and Tables.

### **CHAPTER 62—CONDOMINIUM AND COOPERATIVE CONVERSION PROTECTION AND ABUSE RELIEF** ###

Sec.
3601.Congressional findings and purpose.
3602.Conversion lending.
3603.Definitions.
3604.Exemptions.
3605.Notice of conversion and opportunity to purchase; responsibility of State and local governments.
3606.Federal Housing Administration mortgage or loan insurance; expedition of application process and decision.
3607.Termination of self-dealing contracts.
3608.Judicial determinations respecting unconscionable leases.
3609.Void lease or contract provisions.
3610.Relationship of statutory provisions to State and local laws.
3611.Additional remedies.
3612.Concurrent State and Federal jurisdiction; venue; removal of cases.
3613.Limitation of actions.
3614.Waiver of rights as void.
3615.Nonexclusion of other statutory rights and remedies.
3616.Separability.

