
### §7610. Definitions ###

§7610. Definitions

As used in this chapter:

#### (1) Contact lens fitting ####

The term "contact lens fitting" means the process that begins after the initial eye examination and ends when a successful fit has been achieved or, in the case of a renewal prescription, ends when the prescriber determines that no change in prescription is required, and such term may include—

(A) an examination to determine lens specifications;

(B) except in the case of a renewal of a prescription, an initial evaluation of the fit of the lens on the eye; and

(C) medically necessary follow up examinations.

#### (2) Prescriber ####

The term "prescriber" means, with respect to contact lens prescriptions, an ophthalmologist, optometrist, or other person permitted under State law to issue prescriptions for contact lenses in compliance with any applicable requirements established by the Food and Drug Administration.

#### (3) Contact lens prescription ####

The term "contact lens prescription" means a prescription, issued in accordance with State and Federal law, that contains sufficient information for the complete and accurate filling of a prescription, including the following:

(A) Name of the patient.

(B) Date of examination.

(C) Issue date and expiration date of prescription.

(D) Name, postal address, telephone number, and facsimile telephone number of prescriber.

(E) Power, material or manufacturer or both.

(F) Base curve or appropriate designation.

(G) Diameter, when appropriate.

(H) In the case of a private label contact lens, name of manufacturer, trade name of private label brand, and, if applicable, trade name of equivalent brand name.

(Pub. L. 108–164, §11, Dec. 6, 2003, 117 Stat. 2027.)

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date ####

Section effective 60 days after Dec. 6, 2003, see section 12 of Pub. L. 108–164, set out as a note under section 7601 of this title.

### **CHAPTER 103—CONTROLLING THE ASSAULT OF NON-SOLICITED PORNOGRAPHY AND MARKETING** ###

Sec.
7701.Congressional findings and policy.
7702.Definitions.
7703.Prohibition against predatory and abusive commercial e-mail.
7704.Other protections for users of commercial electronic mail.
7705.Businesses knowingly promoted by electronic mail with false or misleading transmission information.
7706.Enforcement generally.
7707.Effect on other laws.
7708.Do-Not-E-Mail registry.
7709.Study of effects of commercial electronic mail.
7710.Improving enforcement by providing rewards for information about violations; labeling.
7711.Regulations.
7712.Application to wireless.
7713.Separability.

