
### §8304. Authorization of appropriations ###

§8304. Authorization of appropriations

#### (a) In general ####

There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this chapter $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2010, and such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2011 through 2014.

#### (b) Allocation of funds ####

Not more than 10 percent of the amounts appropriated pursuant to subsection (a) may be expended for the administrative costs of the United States Agency for International Development to manage the VfP Program.

(Pub. L. 111–13, title V, §5104, Apr. 21, 2009, 123 Stat. 1600.)

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date ####

Section effective Oct. 1, 2009, see section 6101(a) of Pub. L. 111–13, set out as an Effective Date of 2009 Amendment note under section 4950 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare.

### **CHAPTER 91—ENHANCED PARTNERSHIP WITH PAKISTAN** ###

Sec.
8401.Definitions.
8402.Findings.
8403.Statement of principles.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—DEMOCRATIC, ECONOMIC, AND DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE FOR PAKISTAN ####

8411.Authorization of assistance.
8412.Authorization of appropriations.
8413.Auditing.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—SECURITY ASSISTANCE FOR PAKISTAN ####

8421.Purposes of assistance.
8422.Authorization of assistance.
8423.Limitations on certain assistance.
8424.Pakistan Counterinsurgency Capability Fund.
8425.Requirements for civilian control of certain assistance.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—STRATEGY, ACCOUNTABILITY, MONITORING, AND OTHER PROVISIONS ####

8441.Strategy reports.
8442.Monitoring reports.

