
### §2120. Online access of founding fathers documents ###

§2120. Online access of founding fathers documents

The Archivist may enter into a cooperative agreement to provide online access to the published volumes of the papers of—

(1) George Washington;

(2) Alexander Hamilton;

(3) Thomas Jefferson;

(4) Benjamin Franklin;

(5) John Adams;

(6) James Madison; and

(7) other prominent historical figures, as determined appropriate by the Archivist of the United States.

(Added Pub. L. 110–404, §4(a), Oct. 13, 2008, 122 Stat. 4283.)

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Transfer of Funds ####

Pub. L. 110–404, §4(b), Oct. 13, 2008, 122 Stat. 4283, provided that:

"(1) In general.—The Archivist of the United States, in the role as chairman of the National Historical Publications and Records Commission may enter into cooperative agreements pursuant to section 6305 of title 31, United States Code, that involve the transfer of funds from the National Historical Publications and Records Commission to State and local governments, tribal governments, other public entities, educational institutions, or private nonprofit organizations for the public purpose of carrying out section 2120 of title 44, United States Codes [sic].

"(2) Report.—Not later than December 31st of each year, the Archivist of the United States shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform [now Committee on Oversight and Accountability] of the House of Representatives a report on the provisions, amount, and duration of each cooperative agreement entered into as authorized by paragraph (1) during the preceding fiscal year."

### **CHAPTER 22—PRESIDENTIAL RECORDS** ###

Sec.
2201.Definitions.
2202.Ownership of Presidential records.
2203.Management and custody of Presidential records.
2204.Restrictions on access to Presidential records.
2205.Exceptions to restriction on access.[1](#CHAPTER22_1_target)
2206.Regulations.
2207.Vice-Presidential records.
2208.Claims of constitutionally based privilege against disclosure.
2209.Disclosure requirement for official business conducted using non-official electronic messaging accounts.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2014**—Pub. L. 113–187, §2(a)(3), (e)(2), Nov. 26, 2014, 128 Stat. 2005, 2007, added items 2208 and 2209.

[1 So in original. Does not conform to section catchline.](#CHAPTER22_1)

