
### §8002. Implementation funding and information management ###

§8002. Implementation funding and information management

#### (a) Additional funds for administrative costs ####

#### (1) In general ####

The Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Farm Service Agency, may use not more than $55,000,000 of funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation to cover administrative costs associated with the implementation of title I and the amendments made by that title.

#### (2) Availability ####

The funds referred to in paragraph (1) shall remain available to the Secretary until expended.

#### (3) Set-aside ####

Of the amount specified in paragraph (1), the Secretary shall use not less than $5,000,000, but not more than $8,000,000, to carry out subsection (b).

#### (b) Information management ####

#### (1) Development of system ####

The Secretary of Agriculture shall develop a comprehensive information management system, using appropriate technologies, to be used in implementing the programs administered by the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation and the Farm Service Agency.

#### (2) Elements ####

The information management system developed under this subsection shall be designed to—

(A) improve access by agricultural producers to programs described in paragraph (1);

(B) improve and protect the integrity of the information collected;

(C) meet the needs of the agencies that require the data in the administration of their programs;

(D) improve the timeliness of the collection of the information;

(E) contribute to the elimination of duplication of information collection;

(F) lower the overall cost to the Department of Agriculture for information collection; and

(G) achieve such other goals as the Secretary considers appropriate.

#### (3) Reconciliation of current information management ####

The Secretary shall ensure that all current information of the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation and the Farm Service Agency is combined, reconciled, redefined, and reformatted in such a manner so that the agencies can use the common information management system developed under this subsection.

#### (4) Assistance for development of system ####

The Secretary shall enter into an agreement or contract with a non-Federal entity to assist the Secretary in the development of the information management system. The Secretary shall give preference in entering into an agreement or contract to entities that have—

(A) prior experience with the information and management systems of the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation; and

(B) collaborated with the Corporation in the development of the identification procedures required by section 1515(f) of this title.

#### (5) Use ####

The information collected using the information management system developed under this subsection may be made available to—

(A) any Federal agency that requires the information to carry out the functions of the agency; and

(B) any approved insurance provider, as defined in section 1502(b) of this title, with respect to producers insured by the approved insurance provider.

#### (6) Relation to other activities ####

This subsection shall not interfere with, or delay, existing agreements or requests for proposals of the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation or the Farm Service Agency regarding the information management activities known as data mining or data warehousing.

#### (c) Authorization of appropriations ####

In addition to amounts made available under subsection (a)(3), there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out subsection (b) for each of fiscal years 2003 through 2008.

(Pub. L. 107–171, title X, §10706, May 13, 2002, 116 Stat. 519.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

Title I and the amendments made by that title, referred to in subsec. (a)(1), is title I of Pub. L. 107–171, May 13, 2002, 116 Stat. 143, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of title I to the Code, see References in Text note set out under section 7901 of this title and Tables.

### **CHAPTER 107—RENEWABLE ENERGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT** ###

Sec.
8101.Definitions.
8102.Biobased markets program.
8103.Biorefinery, renewable chemical, and biobased product manufacturing assistance.
8104.Repealed.
8105.Bioenergy program for advanced biofuels.
8106.Biodiesel fuel education program.
8107.Rural Energy for America Program.
8107a.Rural energy savings program.
8108.Biomass research and development.
8109.Repealed.
8110.Feedstock flexibility program for bioenergy producers.
8111.Biomass Crop Assistance Program.
8112.Repealed.
8113.Community Wood Energy and Wood Innovation Program.
8114.Sun grant program.
8115.Carbon utilization and biogas education program.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

Title IX of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002, which comprises this chapter, was originally enacted by Pub. L. 107–171, title IX, May 13, 2002, 116 Stat. 475, and amended by Pub. L. 108–199, div. A, title VII, §778(b), Jan. 23, 2004, 118 Stat. 41; Pub. L. 109–58, title II, §205, title IX, §943(a), (b), Aug. 8, 2005, 119 Stat. 654, 880, 881; Pub. L. 109–171, title I, §1301, Feb. 8, 2006, 120 Stat. 6. Such title is shown herein, however, as having been added by Pub. L. 110–234, title IX, §9001(a), May 22, 2008, 122 Stat. 1303, and Pub. L. 110–246, §4(a), title IX, §9001(a), June 18, 2008, 122 Stat. 1664, 2064, without reference to such intervening amendments because of the extensive revision of the title's provisions by Pub. L. 110–234 and Pub. L. 110–246, which amended the title identically. The amendments by Pub. L. 110–234 were repealed by section 4(a) of Pub. L. 110–246.

