
### §2313. Database for Federal agency contract and grant officers and suspension and debarment officials ###

§2313. Database for Federal agency contract and grant officers and suspension and debarment officials

(a) In General.—Subject to the authority, direction, and control of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, the Administrator of General Services shall establish and maintain a database of information regarding the integrity and performance of certain persons awarded Federal agency contracts and grants for use by Federal agency officials having authority over contracts and grants.

(b) Persons Covered.—The database shall cover the following:

(1) Any person awarded a Federal agency contract or grant in excess of $500,000, if any information described in subsection (c) exists with respect to the person.

(2) Any person awarded such other category or categories of Federal agency contract as the Federal Acquisition Regulation may provide, if any information described in subsection (c) exists with respect to the person.

(c) Information Included.—With respect to a covered person, the database shall include information (in the form of a brief description) for the most recent 5-year period regarding the following:

(1) Each civil or criminal proceeding, or any administrative proceeding, in connection with the award or performance of a contract or grant with the Federal Government with respect to the person during the period to the extent that the proceeding results in the following dispositions:

(A) In a criminal proceeding, a conviction.

(B) In a civil proceeding, a finding of fault and liability that results in the payment of a monetary fine, penalty, reimbursement, restitution, or damages of $5,000 or more.

(C) In an administrative proceeding, a finding of fault and liability that results in—

(i) the payment of a monetary fine or penalty of $5,000 or more; or

(ii) the payment of a reimbursement, restitution, or damages in excess of $100,000.

(D) To the maximum extent practicable and consistent with applicable laws and regulations, in a criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding, a disposition of the matter by consent or compromise with an acknowledgment of fault by the person if the proceeding could have led to any of the outcomes specified in subparagraph (A), (B), or (C).

(E) In an administrative proceeding—

(i) a final determination of contractor fault by the Secretary of Defense pursuant to section 823(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (10 U.S.C. 2302 note; Public Law 111–84); or

(ii) a substantiated allegation, pursuant to section 1704(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013, that the contractor, a subcontractor, or an agent of the contractor or subcontractor engaged in any of the activities described in section 106(g) of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).

(2) Each Federal contract and grant awarded to the person that was terminated in the period due to default.

(3) Each Federal suspension and debarment of the person.

(4) Each Federal administrative agreement entered into by the person and the Federal Government in the period to resolve a suspension or debarment proceeding.

(5) Each final finding by a Federal official in the period that the person has been determined not to be a responsible source under paragraph (3) or (4) of section 113 of this title.

(6) Other information that shall be provided for purposes of this section in the Federal Acquisition Regulation.

(7) To the maximum extent practicable, information similar to the information covered by paragraphs (1) to (4) in connection with the award or performance of a contract or grant with a State government.

(8) Whether the person is included on any of the following lists maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury:

(A) The specially designated nationals and blocked persons list (commonly known as the "SDN list").

(B) The sectoral sanctions identification list.

(C) The foreign sanctions evaders list.

(D) The list of persons sanctioned under the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (Public Law 104–172; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note) that do not appear on the SDN list (commonly known as the "Non-SDN Iranian Sanctions Act list").

(E) The list of foreign financial institutions subject to part 561 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations.

(d) Requirements Relating to Database Information.—

(1) Direct input and update.—The Administrator of General Services shall design and maintain the database in a manner that allows the appropriate Federal agency officials to directly input and update information in the database relating to actions that the officials have taken with regard to contractors or grant recipients.

(2) Timeliness and accuracy.—The Administrator of General Services shall develop policies to require—

(A) the timely and accurate input of information into the database;

(B) the timely notification of any covered person when information relevant to the person is entered into the database; and

(C) opportunities for any covered person to submit comments pertaining to information about the person for inclusion in the database.

(3) Information on corporations.—The information in the database on a person that is a corporation shall, to the extent practicable, include information on any parent, subsidiary, or successor entities to the corporation, and an identification of any beneficial owner of such corporation, in a manner designed to give the acquisition officials using the database a comprehensive understanding of the performance and integrity of the corporation in carrying out Federal contracts and grants.

(4) Definitions.—In this subsection:

(A) Beneficial ownership.—The term "beneficial ownership" has the meaning given under section 847 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92; 133 Stat. 1505; 10 U.S.C. 2509 note).

(B) Corporation.—The term "corporation" means any corporation, company, limited liability company, limited partnership, business trust, business association, or other similar entity.

(e) Use of Database.—

(1) Availability to government officials.—The Administrator of General Services shall ensure that the information in the database is available to appropriate acquisition officials of Federal agencies, other government officials as the Administrator of General Services determines appropriate, and, on request, the Chairman and Ranking Member of the committees of Congress having jurisdiction.

(2) Review and assessment of data.—

(A) In general.—Before awarding a contract or grant in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold under section 134 of this title, the Federal agency official responsible for awarding the contract or grant shall review the database and consider all information in the database with regard to any offer or proposal, and in the case of a contract, shall consider other past performance information available with respect to the offeror in making any responsibility determination or past performance evaluation for the offeror.

(B) Documentation in contract file.—The contract file for each contract of a Federal agency in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold shall document the manner in which the material in the database was considered in any responsibility determination or past performance evaluation.

(f) Disclosure in Applications.—The Federal Acquisition Regulation shall require that persons with Federal agency contracts and grants valued in total greater than $10,000,000 shall—

(1) submit to the Administrator of General Services, in a manner determined appropriate by the Administrator of General Services, the information subject to inclusion in the database as listed in subsection (c) current as of the date of submittal of the information under this subsection; and

(2) update the information submitted under paragraph (1) on a semiannual basis.

(g) Rulemaking.—The Administrator of General Services shall prescribe regulations that may be necessary to carry out this section.

(Pub. L. 111–350, §3, Jan. 4, 2011, 124 Stat. 3740; Pub. L. 111–212, title III, §3010, July 29, 2010, 124 Stat. 2340; Pub. L. 111–383, div. A, title VIII, §834(d), Jan. 7, 2011, 124 Stat. 4279; Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title VIII, §852, title XVII, §1704(d)(2), Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 1856, 2096; Pub. L. 113–291, div. A, title XII, §1270, Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 3587; Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title VIII, §885, Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 3791.)

#### Amendments Not Shown in Text ####

This section was derived from section 417b of former Title 41, Public Contracts, which was amended by Pub. L. 111–212, title III, §3010, July 29, 2010, 124 Stat. 2340, and Pub. L. 111–383, div. A, title VIII, §834(d), Jan. 7, 2011, 124 Stat. 4279, prior to being repealed and reenacted as this section by Pub. L. 111–350, §§3, 7(b), Jan. 4, 2011, 124 Stat. 3677, 3855. For applicability of those amendments to this section, see section 6(a) of Pub. L. 111–350, set out as a Transitional and Savings Provisions note preceding section 101 of this title. Section 417b of former Title 41 was amended by adding at the end of subsec. (e)(1) the following: "In addition, the Administrator shall post all such information, excluding past performance reviews, on a publicly available Internet website." and by adding at the end of subsec. (c)(1) the following new subparagraph:

*"(E) In an administrative proceeding, a final determination of contractor fault by the Secretary of Defense pursuant to section 823(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (10 U.S.C. 2302 note)."*

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 2313 | 41:417b. | Pub. L. 110–417, [div. A], title VIII, §872, Oct. 14, 2008, 122 Stat. 4555. |

In subsection (a), the words "not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act" are omitted because of section 6(f) of the bill.

In subsection (c)(7), the word "practicable" is substituted for "practical" to correct an error in the law.

In subsection (f), the words "Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act" are omitted because of section 6(f) of the bill. The words "shall require" are substituted for "shall be amended to require" to reflect the permanence of the provision.

In subsection (f)(2), the words "the information submitted under paragraph (1)" are substituted for "such information" for clarity.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

Section 1704(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013, referred to in subsec. (c)(1)(E)(ii), is section 1704(b) of Pub. L. 112–239, which is classified to section 7104b(b) of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse.

#### Amendments ####

**2021**—Subsec. (d)(3). Pub. L. 116–283, §885(1), inserted ", and an identification of any beneficial owner of such corporation," after "to the corporation".

Subsec. (d)(4). Pub. L. 116–283, §885(2), added par. (4).

**2014**—Subsec. (c)(8). Pub. L. 113–291 added par. (8).

**2013**—Subsec. (c)(1)(E). Pub. L. 112–239, §1704(d)(2), amended subpar. (E) generally. Prior to amendment, subpar. (E), as added by Pub. L. 111–383, §834(d), read as follows: "(E) In an administrative proceeding, a final determination of contractor fault by the Secretary of Defense pursuant to section 823(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (10 U.S.C. 2302 note)." See Amendments Not Shown in Text note above.

Subsec. (d)(3). Pub. L. 112–239, §852, added par. (3).

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Deadline for Establishing Database ####

Pub. L. 111–350, §6(f)(3), Jan. 4, 2011, 124 Stat. 3855, provided that: "The requirement in section 2313(a) of title 41, United States Code, to establish a database shall be done not later than one year after October 14, 2008."

#### Deadline for Amending Federal Acquisition Regulation ####

Pub. L. 111–350, §6(f)(4), Jan. 4, 2011, 124 Stat. 3855, provided that: "The Federal Acquisition Regulation shall be amended to meet the requirements of sections 2313(f), 3302(b) and (d), 4710(b), and 4711(b) of title 41, United States Code, not later than one year after October 14, 2008."

## Division C—Procurement ##

#### Definitions ####

For additional definitions of terms used in this division, with certain exceptions, see section 102 of Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works.

### **CHAPTER 31—GENERAL** ###

Sec.
3101.Applicability.
3102.Delegation and assignment of powers, functions, and responsibilities.
3103.Acquisition programs.
3104.Small business concerns.
3105.New contracts and grants and merit-based selection procedures.
3106.Erection, repair, or furnishing of public buildings and improvements not authorized, and certain contracts not permitted, by this division.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of Equipment Rental ####

Pub. L. 115–254, div. B, title V, §555, Oct. 5, 2018, 132 Stat. 3381, as amended by Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title XVII, §1702(i)(1), Dec. 27, 2021, 135 Stat. 2159, provided that:

"(a) Agency Analysis of Equipment Acquisition.—

"(1) In general.—Except as provided for under subsection (d), the head of each executive agency shall acquire equipment using the method of acquisition most advantageous to the Federal Government based on a case-by-case analysis of comparative costs and other factors, including those factors listed in section 7.401 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation.

"(2) Methods of acquisition.—The methods of acquisition to be compared in the analysis under paragraph (1) shall include, at a minimum, purchase, short-term rental or lease, long-term rental or lease, interagency acquisition, and acquisition agreements with a State or a local government as described in subsection (c).

"(3) Amendment of federal acquisition regulation.—Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 5, 2018], the Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council shall amend the Federal Acquisition Regulation to implement the requirement of this subsection, including a determination of the factors for executive agencies to consider for purposes of performing the analysis under paragraph (1).

"(4) Rule of construction.—Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to affect the requirements of chapter 37 of title 41, United States Code, sections 3206 through 3208 and sections 3301 through 3309 of title 10, United States Code, or section 1535 of title 31, United States Code.

"(b) Date of Implementation.—The analysis described in subsection (a) shall be applied to contracts for the acquisition of equipment entered into on or after the date that the Federal Acquisition Regulation is amended pursuant to paragraph (3) of such subsection.

"(c) Acquisition Agreements With States or Local Governments.—

"(1) In general.—Notwithstanding any other provision of law, including chapter 37 of title 41, United States Code, the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 631 et seq.), and sections 3206 through 3208 and sections 3301 through 3309 of title 10, United States Code, the head of an executive agency may enter into an acquisition agreement authorized by this section directly with a State or a local government if the agency head determines that the agreement otherwise satisfies the requirements of subsection (a)(1).

"(2) Terms and conditions.—Any agreement under paragraph (1) shall contain such terms and conditions as the head of the agency deems necessary or appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.

"(d) Exceptions.—The analysis otherwise required under subsection (a) is not required—

"(1) when the President has issued an emergency declaration or a major disaster declaration pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.);

"(2) in other emergency situations if the agency head makes a determination that obtaining such equipment is necessary in order to protect human life or property; or

"(3) when otherwise authorized by law.

"(e) Study of Agency Analyses.—Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform [now Committee on Oversight and Accountability] of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate a comprehensive report on the decisions made by the executive agencies with the highest levels of acquisition spending, and a sample of executive agencies with lower levels of acquisition spending, to acquire high-value equipment by lease, rental, or purchase pursuant to subpart 7.4 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation.

"(f) Definitions.—In this section:

"(1) Executive agency.—The term 'executive agency' has the meaning given that term in section 102 of title 40, United States Code.

"(2) Interagency acquisition.—The term 'interagency acquisition' has the meaning given that term in section 2.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation.

"(3) State.—The term 'State' has the meaning given the term in section 6501 of title 31, United States Code.

"(4) Local government.—The term 'local government' means any unit of local government within a State, including a county, municipality, city, borough, town, township, parish, local public authority, school district, special district, intrastate district, council of governments, or regional or interstate government entity, and any agency or instrumentality of a local government."

#### Uniform Contract Writing System Requirements ####

Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title VIII, §862, Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 1859, provided that:

"(a) Uniform Standards and Controls Required.—Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 2, 2013], the officials specified in subsection (b) shall—

"(1) establish uniform data standards, internal control requirements, independent verification and validation requirements, and business process rules for processing procurement requests, contracts, receipts, and invoices by the Department of Defense or other executive agencies, as applicable;

"(2) establish and maintain one or more approved electronic contract writing systems that conform with the standards, requirements, and rules established pursuant to paragraph (1); and

"(3) require the use of electronic contract writing systems approved in accordance with paragraph (2) for all contracts entered into by the Department of Defense or other executive agencies, as applicable.

"(b) Covered Officials.—The officials specified in this subsection are the following:

"(1) The Secretary of Defense, with respect to the Department of Defense and the military departments.

"(2) The Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy, with respect to the executive agencies other than the Department of Defense and the military departments.

"(c) Electronic Writing Systems for Department of State and USAID.—Notwithstanding subsection (b)(2), the Secretary of State and the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development may meet the requirements of subsection (a)(2) with respect to approved electronic contract writing systems for the Department of State and the United States Agency for International Development, respectively, if the Secretary and the Administrator, as the case may be, demonstrate to the Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy that prior investment of resources in existing contract writing systems will result in the most cost effective and efficient means to satisfy such requirements.

"(d) Phase-in of Implementation of Requirement for Approved Systems.—The officials specified in subsection (b) may phase in the implementation of the requirement to use approved electronic contract writing systems in accordance with subsection (a)(3) over a period of up to five years beginning with the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 2, 2013].

"(e) Reports.—Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 2, 2013], the officials specified in subsection (b) shall each submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the implementation of the requirements of this section. Each report shall, at a minimum—

"(1) describe the standards, requirements, and rules established pursuant to subsection (a)(1);

"(2) identify the electronic contract writing systems approved pursuant to subsection (a)(2) and, if multiple systems are approved, explain why the use of such multiple systems is the most efficient and effective approach to meet the contract writing needs of the Federal Government; and

"(3) provide the schedule for phasing in the use of approved electronic contract writing systems in accordance with subsections (a)(3) and (d).

"(f) Definitions.—In this section:

"(1) The term 'appropriate committees of Congress' means—

"(A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and

"(B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform [now Committee on Oversight and Accountability], and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.

"(2) The term 'executive agency' has the meaning given that term in section 133 of title 41, United States Code."

