
### §6104. Commercial fishing industry vessel casualty statistics ###

§6104. Commercial fishing industry vessel casualty statistics

(a) The Secretary shall compile statistics concerning marine casualties from data compiled from insurers of fishing vessels, fish processing vessels, and fish tender vessels.

(b) A person underwriting primary insurance for a fishing vessel, fish processing vessel, or fish tender vessel shall submit periodically to the Secretary data concerning marine casualties that is required by regulations prescribed by the Secretary.

(c) After consulting with the insurance industry, the Secretary shall prescribe regulations under this section to gather a statistical base for analyzing vessel risks.

(d) The Secretary may delegate to a qualified person that has knowledge and experience in the collection of statistical insurance data the authority of the Secretary under this section to compile statistics from insurers.

(Added Pub. L. 100–424, §4(a), Sept. 9, 1988, 102 Stat. 1590.)

### **CHAPTER 63—INVESTIGATING MARINE CASUALTIES** ###

Sec.
6301.Investigation of marine casualties.
6302.Public investigations.
6303.Rights of parties in interest.
6304.Subpoena authority.
6305.Reports of investigations.
6306.Penalty.
6307.Notifications to Congress.
6308.Information barred in legal proceedings.
6309.Voyage data recorder access.

#### Historical and Revision Notes ####

Chapter 63 sets forth the scope and procedures for the investigation of marine casualties and incidents that are required to be reported by Chapter 61, as well as the rights of parties involved in a casualty.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2022**—Pub. L. 117–263, div. K, title CXVIII, §11807(b), Dec. 23, 2022, 136 Stat. 4165, added item 6304 and struck out former item 6304 "Subpena authority".

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–265, title II, §207(b), Oct. 11, 2018, 132 Stat. 3747, added item 6309.

**1996**—Pub. L. 104–324, title III, §313(b), Oct. 19, 1996, 110 Stat. 3922, added item 6308.

