
### §1402. Authority and functions of agency Chief Human Capital Officers ###

§1402. Authority and functions of agency Chief Human Capital Officers

(a) The functions of each Chief Human Capital Officer shall include—

(1) setting the workforce development strategy of the agency;

(2) assessing workforce characteristics and future needs based on the agency's mission and strategic plan;

(3) aligning the agency's human resources policies and programs with organization mission, strategic goals, and performance outcomes;

(4) developing and advocating a culture of continuous learning to attract and retain employees with superior abilities;

(5) identifying best practices and benchmarking studies,[1](#1402_1_target) and

(6) applying methods for measuring intellectual capital and identifying links of that capital to organizational performance and growth.

(b) In addition to the authority otherwise provided by this section, each agency Chief Human Capital Officer—

(1) shall have access to all records, reports, audits, reviews, documents, papers, recommendations, or other material that—

(A) are the property of the agency or are available to the agency; and

(B) relate to programs and operations with respect to which that agency Chief Human Capital Officer has responsibilities under this chapter; and

(2) may request such information or assistance as may be necessary for carrying out the duties and responsibilities provided by this chapter from any Federal, State, or local governmental entity.

(Added Pub. L. 107–296, title XIII, §1302(a), Nov. 25, 2002, 116 Stat. 2288.)

[1 So in original. The comma probably should be a semicolon.](#1402_1)

### **CHAPTER 15—POLITICAL ACTIVITY OF CERTAIN STATE AND LOCAL EMPLOYEES** ###

Sec.
1501.Definitions.
1502.Influencing elections; taking part in political campaigns; prohibitions; exceptions.
1503.Nonpartisan candidacies permitted.
1504.Investigations; notice of hearing.
1505.Hearings; adjudications; notice of determinations.
1506.Orders; withholding loans or grants; limitations.
1507.Subpenas and depositions.
1508.Judicial review.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**1974**—Pub. L. 93–443, title IV, §401(b)(2), Oct. 15, 1974, 88 Stat. 1290, substituted "candidacies" for "political activity" in item 1503.

