
### §9815. Reporting requirement ###

§9815. Reporting requirement

The Administrator shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress, not later than February 28 of each of the next 6 years beginning after the date of enactment of this chapter, a report that provides the following:

(1) A summary of all bonuses paid under subsections (b) and (c) of section 9804 during the preceding fiscal year. Such summary shall include the total amount of bonuses paid, the total number of bonuses paid, the percentage of the amount of bonuses awarded to supervisors and management officials, and the average percentage used to calculate the total average bonus amount, under each of those subsections.

(2) A summary of all bonuses paid under subsections (b) and (c) of section 9805 during the preceding fiscal year. Such summary shall include the total amount of bonuses paid, the total number of bonuses paid, the percentage of the amount of bonuses awarded to supervisors and management officials, and the average percentage used to calculate the total average bonus amount, under each of those subsections.

(3) The total number of term appointments converted during the preceding fiscal year under section 9806 and, of that total number, the number of conversions that were made to address a critical need described in the workforce plan pursuant to section 9802(b)(2).

(4) The number of positions for which the rate of basic pay was fixed under section 9807 during the preceding fiscal year, the number of positions for which the rate of basic pay under such section was terminated during the preceding fiscal year, and the number of times the rate of basic pay was fixed under such section to address a critical need described in the workforce plan pursuant to section 9802(b)(2).

(5) The number of scholarships awarded under section 9809 during the preceding fiscal year and the number of scholarship recipients appointed by the Administration during the preceding fiscal year.

(6) The total number of distinguished scholar appointments made under section 9810 during the preceding fiscal year and, of that total number, the number of appointments that were made to address a critical need described in the workforce plan pursuant to section 9802(b)(2).

(7) The average amount paid per appointee, and the largest amount paid to any appointee, under section 9811 during the preceding fiscal year for travel and transportation expenses.

(8) The total number of employees who were awarded enhanced annual leave under section 9812 during the preceding fiscal year; of that total number, the number of employees who were serving in a position addressing a critical need described in the workforce plan pursuant to section 9802(b)(2); and, for employees in each of those respective groups, the average amount of additional annual leave such employees earned in the preceding fiscal year (over and above what they would have earned absent section 9812).

(9) The total number of appointments made under section 9813 during the preceding fiscal year and, of that total number, the number of appointments that were made to address a critical need described in the workforce plan pursuant to section 9802(b)(2).

(10) The number of employees for whom the Administrator set the pay under section 9814 during the preceding fiscal year and the number of times pay was set under such section to address a critical need described in the workforce plan pursuant to section 9802(b)(2).

(11) A summary of all recruitment, relocation, redesignation, and retention bonuses paid under authorities other than this chapter and excluding the authorities provided in sections 5753 and 5754 of this title, during the preceding fiscal year. Such summary shall include, for each type of bonus, the total amount of bonuses paid, the total number of bonuses paid, the percentage of the amount of bonuses awarded to supervisors and management officials, and the average percentage used to calculate the total average bonus amount.

(Added Pub. L. 108–201, §3(a), Feb. 24, 2004, 118 Stat. 475.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

The date of enactment of this chapter, referred to in introductory provisions, is the date of enactment of Pub. L. 108–201, which was approved Feb. 24, 2004.

### **CHAPTER 99—DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PERSONNEL AUTHORITIES** ###

Sec.
9901.Definitions.
9902.Department of Defense personnel authorities.
9903.Attracting highly qualified experts.
9904.Special pay and benefits for certain employees outside the United States.
9905.Direct hire authority for certain personnel of the Department of Defense.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–232, div. A, title XI, §1101(b), Aug. 13, 2018, 132 Stat. 2000, added item 9905.

**2011**—Pub. L. 112–81, div. A, title XI, §1101(d)(1), Dec. 31, 2011, 125 Stat. 1610, amended chapter heading generally, substituting "DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PERSONNEL AUTHORITIES" for "DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE NATIONAL SECURITY PERSONNEL SYSTEM".

**2009**—Pub. L. 111–84, div. A, title XI, §1113(f)(2), Oct. 28, 2009, 123 Stat. 2502, added item 9902 and struck out former item 9902 "Establishment of human resources management system".

