
### §8607. Other matters of cooperation ###

§8607. Other matters of cooperation

#### (a) In general ####

Activities authorized under this section shall be carried out with the concurrence of the Secretary of State and aligned with the National Security Strategy of the United States, the United States Government Global Health Security Strategy, the Department of State Integrated Country Strategies, the USAID Country Development Cooperation Strategies, and any equivalent or successor plans or strategies, as necessary and appropriate.

#### (b) Development of health technologies ####

#### (1) In general ####

There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Health and Human Services $4,000,000 for fiscal years 2021 through 2023 for a bilateral cooperative program with the Government of Israel that awards grants for the development of health technologies, which may include health technologies listed in paragraph (2), subject to paragraph (3), with an emphasis on collaboratively advancing the use of technology and personalized medicine in relation to COVID–19.

#### (2) Types of health technologies ####

The health technologies described in this paragraph are technologies such as, drugs and vaccines, ventilators, diagnostic tests, and technologies to facilitate telemedicine.

#### (3) Restrictions on funding ####

Amounts appropriated pursuant to paragraph (1) are subject to a matching contribution from the Government of Israel.

#### (4) Option for establishing new program ####

Amounts appropriated pursuant to paragraph (1) may be expended for a bilateral program with the Government of Israel that—

(A) is in existence on the day before January 1, 2021, for the purposes described in paragraph (1); or

(B) is established after January 1, 2021, by the Secretary of Health and Human Services, in consultation with the Secretary of State, in accordance with the Agreement between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the State of Israel on Cooperation in Science and Technology for Homeland Security Matters, done at Jerusalem May 29, 2008 (or a successor agreement), for the purposes described in paragraph (1).

#### (5) Public availability ####

The Secretary shall require, as a condition of any grant awarded under this subsection, that all research publications and results of such research, including basic and applied research, shall be made publicly available on the website of the Department of Health and Human Services.

#### (c) Coordinator of United States-Israel Research and Development ####

#### (1) In general ####

The President may designate the Assistant Secretary of State for the Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, or another appropriate Department of State official, to act as Coordinator of United States-Israel Research and Development (referred to in this subsection as the "Coordinator").

#### (2) Authorities and duties ####

The Coordinator, in conjunction with the heads of relevant Federal Government departments and agencies and in coordination with the Israel Innovation Authority, may oversee civilian science and technology programs on a joint basis with Israel.

#### (d) Office of Global Policy and Strategy of the Food and Drug Administration ####

#### (1) In general ####

It is the sense of Congress that the Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration should seek to explore collaboration with Israel through the Office of Global Policy and Strategy.

#### (2) Report ####

Not later than one year after January 1, 2021, the Commissioner, acting through the head of the Office of Global Policy and Strategy, shall submit a report describing the benefits to the United States and to Israel of opening an office in Israel for the Office of Global Policy and Strategy to—

(A) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate;

(B) the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate;

(C) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives; and

(D) the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives.

#### (e) United States-Israel Energy Center ####

There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Energy $4,000,000 for fiscal year 2021 to carry out the activities of the United States-Israel Energy Center established pursuant to section 17337(d) of title 42.

#### (f) United States-Israel Binational Industrial Research and Development Foundation ####

It is the sense of Congress that grants to promote covered energy projects conducted by, or in conjunction with, the United States-Israel Binational Industrial Research and Development Foundation should be funded at not less than $2,000,000 annually under section 17337(b) of title 42.

#### (g) Omitted ####

#### (h) Annual policy dialogue ####

It is the sense of Congress that the Department of Transportation and Israel's Ministry of Transportation should engage in an annual policy dialogue to implement the 2016 Memorandum of Cooperation signed by the Secretary of Transportation and the Israeli Minister of Transportation.

#### (i) Cooperation on space exploration and science initiatives ####

The Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration shall continue to work with the Israel Space Agency to identify and cooperatively pursue peaceful space exploration and science initiatives in areas of mutual interest, taking all appropriate measures to protect sensitive information, intellectual property, trade secrets, and economic interests of the United States.

#### (j) Research and development cooperation relating to desalination technology ####

Not later than one year after January 1, 2021, the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy shall submit a report that describes research and development cooperation with international partners, such as the State of Israel, in the area of desalination technology in accordance with section 9(b)(3) of the Water Desalination Act of 1996 (42 U.S.C. 10301 note) to—

(1) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate;

(2) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate;

(3) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives; and

(4) the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives.

#### (k) Research and treatment of posttraumatic stress disorder ####

It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of Veterans Affairs should seek to explore collaboration between the Mental Illness Research, Education and Clinical Centers of Excellence and Israeli institutions with expertise in researching and treating posttraumatic stress disorder.

(Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XII, §1280A, Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 3982.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

Section 9(b)(3) of the Water Desalination Act of 1996, referred to in subsec. (j), is section 9(b)(3) of Pub. L. 104–298, which is set out in a note under section 10301 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare.

#### Codification ####

Section is comprised of section 1280A of Pub. L. 116–283. Subsec. (g) of section 1280A of Pub. L. 116–283 amended section 8606 of this title.

Section was enacted as part of the United States-Israel Security Assistance Authorization Act of 2020 and also as part of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021, and not as part of the United States-Israel Enhanced Security Cooperation Act of 2012 which comprises this chapter.

### **CHAPTER 94—IRAN THREAT REDUCTION AND SYRIA HUMAN RIGHTS** ###

Sec.
8701.Definitions.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—EXPANSION OF MULTILATERAL SANCTIONS REGIME WITH RESPECT TO IRAN ####

8711.Sense of Congress on enforcement of multilateral sanctions regime and expansion and implementation of sanctions laws.
8712.Diplomatic efforts to expand multilateral sanctions regime.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—ADDITIONAL MEASURES RELATING TO SANCTIONS AGAINST IRAN ####

8721.Imposition of sanctions with respect to the provision of vessels or shipping services to transport certain goods related to proliferation or terrorism activities to Iran.
8722.Imposition of sanctions with respect to provision of underwriting services or insurance or reinsurance for the National Iranian Oil Company or the National Iranian Tanker Company.
8723.Imposition of sanctions with respect to purchase, subscription to, or facilitation of the issuance of Iranian sovereign debt.
8724.Continuation in effect of sanctions with respect to the Government of Iran, the Central Bank of Iran, and sanctions evaders.
8725.Liability of parent companies for violations of sanctions by foreign subsidiaries.
8726.Reports on, and authorization of imposition of sanctions with respect to, the provision of specialized financial messaging services to the Central Bank of Iran and other sanctioned Iranian financial institutions.
8727.Identification of, and immigration restrictions on, senior officials of the Government of Iran and their family members.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO IRAN'S REVOLUTIONARY GUARD CORPS ####

8741.Identification of, and imposition of sanctions with respect to, officials, agents, and affiliates of Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps.
8742.Identification of, and imposition of sanctions with respect to, persons that support or conduct certain transactions with Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps or other sanctioned persons.
8743.Identification of, and imposition of measures with respect to, foreign government agencies carrying out activities or transactions with certain Iran-affiliated persons.
8744.Rule of construction.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—MEASURES TO PROMOTE HUMAN RIGHTS ####

8751.Codification of sanctions with respect to grave human rights abuses by the Governments of Iran and Syria using information technology.
8752.Clarification of sensitive technologies for purposes of procurement ban under Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010.
8753.Expedited consideration of requests for authorization of certain human rights-, humanitarian-, and democracy-related activities with respect to Iran.
8754.Comprehensive strategy to promote Internet freedom and access to information in Iran.
8755.Statement of policy on political prisoners.
8756.Secretary of State assistance for prisoners in Islamic Republic of Iran.
#### SUBCHAPTER V—MISCELLANEOUS ####

8771.Exclusion of citizens of Iran seeking education relating to the nuclear and energy sectors of Iran.
8772.Interests in certain financial assets of Iran.
8773.Report on membership of Iran in international organizations.
#### SUBCHAPTER VI—GENERAL PROVISIONS ####

8781.Implementation; penalties.
8782.Applicability to certain intelligence activities.
8783.Applicability to certain natural gas projects.
8784.Rule of construction with respect to use of force against Iran and Syria.
8785.Termination.
#### SUBCHAPTER VII—SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES IN SYRIA ####

8791.Imposition of sanctions with respect to certain persons who are responsible for or complicit in human rights abuses committed against citizens of Syria or their family members.
8792.Imposition of sanctions with respect to the transfer of goods or technologies to Syria that are likely to be used to commit human rights abuses.
8793.Imposition of sanctions with respect to persons who engage in censorship or other forms of repression in Syria.
8794.Waiver.
8795.Termination.

