
### §6736. Authorization of appropriations for Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, and Virgin Islands ###

§6736. Authorization of appropriations for Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, and Virgin Islands

#### (a) Authorizations for five calendar quarters beginning July 1, 1977 ####

There is hereby authorized to be appropriated for each of the five succeeding calendar quarters (beginning with the calendar quarter which begins on July 1, 1977) for the purpose of making payments under this subchapter to Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, and the Virgin Islands, an amount equal to 1 percent of the amount authorized for each such quarter under section 6722(b) of this title.

#### (b) Allocations ####

(1) The Secretary shall allocate from the amount authorized under subsection (a) an amount for the purpose of making payments to such governments equal to the total authorized for the calendar quarter multiplied by the applicable territorial percentage.

(2) For the purposes of this subsection, the applicable territorial percentage is equal to the quotient resulting from the division of the territorial population by the sum of the territorial population for all territories.

(3) For purposes of this section—

(A) The term "territory" means Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, and the Virgin Islands.

(B) The term "territorial population" means the most recent population for each territory as determined by the Bureau of Census.

(C) The provisions of sections 6723(c)(4), 6724, 6725, 6726,[1](#6736_1_target) 6727, 6728, 6729, 6730, 6731, 6732, and 6733 [1](#6736_1_target) of this title shall apply to the funds authorized under this section.

#### (c) Payments to local governments ####

The governments of the territories are authorized to make payments to local governments within their jurisdiction from sums received under this section as they deem appropriate.

(Pub. L. 94–369, title II, §216, as added Pub. L. 95–30, title VI, §607, May 23, 1977, 91 Stat. 167.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

Section 6726 of this title, referred to in subsec. (b)(3)(C), was repealed by Pub. L. 95–30, title VI, §603(i), May 23, 1977, 91 Stat. 166.

Section 6733 of this title, referred to in subsec. (b)(3)(C), was repealed by Pub. L. 104–66, title I, §1131(b), Dec. 21, 1995, 109 Stat. 725.

[1 See References in Text note below.](#6736_1)

### **CHAPTER 81—ENERGY CONSERVATION AND RESOURCE RENEWAL** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—ELECTRIC UTILITY RATE DESIGN INITIATIVES ####

Sec.
6801.Congressional findings and purpose.
6802.Definitions.
6803.Development of electric utility rate design proposals by Secretary; contents; submission to Congress; supporting analysis.
6804.Funding, administrative, and judicial authorities of Secretary.
6805.Grants for State consumer protection offices by Secretary.
6806.Statement in annual report.
6807.State utility regulatory assistance.
6807a.Energy efficiency grants to State regulatory authorities.
6808.Authorization of appropriations.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—ENERGY CONSERVATION STANDARDS FOR NEW BUILDINGS ####

6831.Congressional findings and purpose.
6832.Definitions.
6833.Updating State building energy efficiency codes.
6834.Federal building energy efficiency standards.
6835.Federal compliance.
6836.Support for voluntary building energy codes.
6837.Omitted.
6838.Cost-effective codes implementation for efficiency and resilience.
6839, 6840. Repealed.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—ENERGY CONSERVATION AND RENEWABLE-RESOURCE ASSISTANCE FOR EXISTING BUILDINGS ####

6851.Congressional findings and purpose.

#### Part A—Weatherization Assistance for Low-Income Persons ####

6861.Congressional findings and purpose.
6862.Definitions.
6863.Weatherization program.
6864.Financial assistance.
6864a.Private sector investments.
6864b.Technical transfer grants.
6864c.Contractor optimization.
6864d.Financial assistance for WAP enhancement and innovation.
6864e.Hiring.
6865.Limitations on financial assistance.
6866.Monitoring and evaluation of funded projects; technical assistance; limitation on assistance.
6867.Administration of projects receiving financial assistance.
6868.Approval of application or amendment for financial assistance; administrative procedures applicable.
6869.Judicial review of final action by Secretary on application.
6870.Prohibition against discrimination; notification to funded project of violation; penalties for failure to comply.
6871.Annual report by Secretary and Director to President and Congress on weatherization program.
6872.Authorization of appropriations.
6873.Availability of labor.
#### Part B—Energy Conservation and Renewable-Resource Obligation Guarantees ####

6881.Energy resource and renewable-resource obligation guarantee program.
#### Part C—Miscellaneous Provisions ####

6891.Exchange of energy information among the States.
6892.Annual report to Congress by Comptroller General.

### SUBCHAPTER I—ELECTRIC UTILITY RATE DESIGN INITIATIVES ###

