
### §7933. State authority for fish and wildlife ###

§7933. State authority for fish and wildlife

Nothing in this title— [1](#7933_1_target)

(1) authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture or the Secretary to require Federal licenses or permits to hunt and fish on Federal land; or

(2) enlarges or diminishes the responsibility or authority of States with respect to fish and wildlife management.

(Pub. L. 116–9, title IV, §4403, Mar. 12, 2019, 133 Stat. 766.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

This title, referred to in text, means title IV of Pub. L. 116–9, Mar. 12, 2019, 133 Stat. 756, which enacted this chapter and amended section 704 of this title, section 504 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, section 2412 of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure, and section 1304 of Title 31, Money and Finance. For complete classification of title IV to the Code, see Tables.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Definition of "Secretary" ####

Secretary means the Secretary of the Interior, see section 2 of Pub. L. 116–9, set out as a note under section 1 of this title.

[1 See References in Text note below.](#7933_1)

### **CHAPTER 99—MARITIME SECURITY AND FISHERIES ENFORCEMENT** ###

Sec.
8001.Definitions.
8002.Purposes.
8003.Statement of policy.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—PROGRAMS TO COMBAT IUU FISHING AND INCREASE MARITIME SECURITY ####

8011.Coordination with international organizations.
8012.Engagement of diplomatic missions of the United States.
8013.Assistance by Federal agencies to improve law enforcement within priority regions and priority flag states.
8014.Expansion of existing mechanisms to combat IUU fishing.
8015.Improvement of transparency and traceability programs.
8016.Technology programs.
8017.Savings clause.
8018.Capacity building in foreign fisheries.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—ESTABLISHMENT OF INTERAGENCY WORKING GROUP ON IUU FISHING ####

8031.Interagency Working Group on IUU fishing.
8032.Strategic plan.
8033.Reports.
8034.Gulf of Mexico IUU Fishing Subworking Group.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS ####

8041.Authorization of appropriations.

