
### §4338. Designation by Senator who is Chairman or Vice Chairman of Senate Select Committee on Ethics of employee in office of that Senator to perform part-time service for Committee; amount reimbursable; procedure applicable ###

§4338. Designation by Senator who is Chairman or Vice Chairman of Senate Select Committee on Ethics of employee in office of that Senator to perform part-time service for Committee; amount reimbursable; procedure applicable

Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, a Senator who is the Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Ethics may designate one employee employed in his Senate office to perform part-time service for such Committee, and such Committee shall reimburse such Senator for such employee's services for the Committee by transferring from the contingent fund of the Senate, upon vouchers approved by the Chairman of such Committee, to such Senator's Administrative, Clerical, and Legislative Assistance Allowance, with respect to each pay period of such employee, an amount which bears the same ratio to such employee's salary (but not more than one-half of such salary) for such period, as the portion of the time spent (or to be spent) by such employee in performing services for such Committee during such period bears to the total time for which such employee worked (or will work) during such period (as determined by the Chairman of such Committee) for such Committee and in such Senator's office. Any funds transferred under authority of the preceding sentence to a Senator's Administrative, Clerical, and Legislative Assistance [1](#4338_1_target) shall be available for the same purposes and in like manner as funds therein which were not transferred thereto under such authority. For purposes of any law of the United States, a State, a territory, or a political subdivision thereof, an employee designated by a Senator pursuant to this section shall be considered to be an employee of such Senator's Senate office and not an employee of the Senate Select Committee on Ethics.

(Pub. L. 98–367, title I, §10, July 17, 1984, 98 Stat. 476.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

Section was formerly classified to section 72a–1f of this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Section is from the Congressional Operations Appropriation Act, 1985, which is title I of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1985.

[1 So in original. Probably should be "Assistance Allowance".](#4338_1)

### **CHAPTER 45—CONGRESSIONAL PAY AND BENEFITS** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL ####

#### Part A—Amount and Type ####

Sec.
4501.Compensation of Members of Congress.
4502.Appropriation of funds for compensation of Members of Congress and for administrative expenses at levels authorized by law and recommended by the President for Federal employees.
4503.Jury and witness service by Senate and House employees.
4504.Nonpay status for Congressional employees studying under Congressional staff fellowships.
4505.Voluntary separation incentive payments.
4506.Death gratuity payments as gifts.
4507.Longevity compensation.
4508.Longevity compensation for telephone operators on United States telephone exchange and members of Capitol Police paid by Chief Administrative Officer of House.
4509.Longevity compensation not applicable to individuals paid by Secretary of Senate; savings provision.

#### Part B—Administration ####

4521.Mode of payment.
4522.Deductions for withdrawal.
4523.Deductions for delinquent indebtedness.
4524.Withholding of charitable contributions from salaries paid by Secretary of Senate and from employees of Architect of Capitol.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES ####

#### Part A—Amount and Type ####

4531.House of Representatives pay adjustments; action by Chief Administrative Officer of House.
4532.Rates of compensation disbursed by Chief Administrative Officer of House; adjustments by Speaker; "Member of the House of Representatives" defined.
4533.Single per annum gross rates of pay for employees.
4534.Obsolete references in existing law to basic pay rates.
4535.Saving provision.
4536.Student loan repayment program for House employees.
4537.Lump sum payment for accrued annual leave of House employees.
4538.Reimbursement of residential telecommunications expenses for House Members, officers, and employees.
#### Part B—Administration ####

4551.Day for paying salaries of the House of Representatives.
4552.Certificates to pay rolls of employees of House.
4553.Gratuities for survivors of deceased House employees; computation.
4554.Waiver by Speaker of House of claims of United States arising out of erroneous payments to officers or employees paid by Chief Administrative Officer of House.
4555.Withholding of State income tax by Chief Administrative Officer of House.
4556.State income tax withholding; definitions.
4557.Withholding of charitable contributions by Chief Administrative Officer of House.
4558.Withholding of charitable contributions; definitions.
4559.Certification of indebtedness of employees of House; withholding of amount.
4560.Deductions by Chief Administrative Officer in disbursement of gratuity appropriations.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—SENATE ####

#### Part A—Amount and Type ####

4571.Senate pay adjustments; action by President pro tempore of Senate.
4572.Rates of compensation paid by Secretary of Senate; applicability of Senate pay adjustments by President pro tempore of Senate.
4573.Senate pay adjustments; action by President pro tempore of Senate.
4574.Limit on rate of compensation of Senate officers and employees.
4575.Gross rate of compensation of employees paid by Secretary of Senate.
4575a.Change in maximum rates of pay for statutory employees.
4576.Availability of appropriated funds for payment to an individual of pay from more than one position; conditions.
4577.Availability of appropriations during first three months of any fiscal year for aggregate of payments of gross compensation made to employees from Senate appropriation account for "Salaries, Officers and Employees".
4578.Restriction on payment of dual compensation by Secretary of Senate.
4579.Student loan repayment program for Senate employees.
4580.Lump sum payment for accrued annual leave of Senate employees.
4581.Aggregate gross compensation of employee of Senator of State with population under 5,000,000.
#### Part B—Administration ####

4591.Vice President, Senators, officers, and employees paid by Secretary of Senate; payment of salary; advance payment.
4592.Payment of sums due deceased Senators and Senate personnel.
4593.Waiver by Secretary of Senate of claims of United States arising out of erroneous payments to Vice President, Senator, or Senate employee paid by Secretary of Senate.
4594.Withholding and remittance of State income tax by Secretary of Senate.
4595.Payment for unaccrued leave.

### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL ###

### Part A—Amount and Type ###

