
### §3786. Use or release restriction: definition ###

§3786. Use or release restriction: definition

In this subchapter, the term "use or release restriction", with respect to technical data delivered to the United States under a contract subject to this section, means a restriction by the contractor or subcontractor on the right of the United States—

(1) to use such technical data; or

(2) to release or disclose such technical data to persons outside the Government or permit the use of such technical data by persons outside the Government.

(Added and amended Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §1833(g), (m), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4231, 4233.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

The text of subsec. (j) of section 2321 of this title, which was transferred to this section and amended by Pub. L. 116–283, §1833(m), was based on Pub. L. 100–26, §7(a)(5), Apr. 21, 1987, 101 Stat. 277; Pub. L. 100–180, div. A, title XII, §1231(6), Dec. 4, 1987, 101 Stat. 1160; Pub. L. 103–355, title VIII, §8106(b)(1), Oct. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 3393.

#### Prior Provisions ####

Prior sections 3786 and 3787 were repealed by Pub. L. 96–513, title II, §213, title VII, §701, Dec. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 2885, 2955, effective Sept. 15, 1981.

Section 3786, acts Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 219; July 12, 1960, Pub. L. 86–616, §2(a), 74 Stat. 387, authorized Secretary of the Army, at any time during proceedings under this chapter and before removal of an officer from active list of Regular Army, to grant that officer's request for voluntary retirement, if he is otherwise qualified therefor, or for honorable discharge with severance benefits. See section 1186 of this title.

Section 3787, added Pub. L. 86–616, §2(a), July 12, 1960, 74 Stat. 388, provided that no officer serve on a board under this chapter unless he holds a regular or temporary grade above lieutenant colonel, and is senior in regular grade to, and outranks, any officer considered by board and that no person be a member of more than one board convened under this chapter for same officer. See section 1187 of this title.

#### Amendments ####

**2021**—Pub. L. 116–283, §1833(m), transferred subsec. (j) of section 2321 of this title to this section, struck out subsec. (j) designation and heading "Use or Release Restriction Defined" at beginning, and substituted "In this subchapter" for "In this section" in introductory provisions.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date ####

Section and amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as an Effective Date of 2021 Amendment note preceding section 3001 of this title.

### SUBCHAPTER III—OTHER PROVISIONS RELATING TO PROPRIETARY CONTRACTOR DATA AND RIGHTS IN TECHNICAL DATA ###

Sec.
3791.Management of intellectual property matters within the Department of Defense.
3792.[Reserved].
3793.Copyrights, patents, designs, etc.; acquisition.
3794.Release of technical data under Freedom of Information Act: recovery of costs.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2021**—Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title XVII, §1701(b)(12)(A), (f)(6), Dec. 27, 2021, 135 Stat. 2134, 2139, made technical amendment to Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §1833(n), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4233, which added this analysis, added "[Reserved]" for item 3792, and struck out former item 3792 "Technical data rights: non-FAR agreements".

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Technical Data Rights Under Non-FAR Agreements ####

Pub. L. 110–417, [div. A], title VIII, §822, Oct. 14, 2008, 122 Stat. 4532, as amended by Pub. L. 111–383, div. A, title X, §1075(e)(13), Jan. 7, 2011, 124 Stat. 4375, provided that:

"(a) Policy Guidance.—Not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 14, 2008], the Secretary of Defense shall issue policy guidance with respect to rights in technical data under a non-FAR agreement. The guidance shall—

"(1) establish criteria for defining the legitimate interests of the United States and the party concerned in technical data pertaining to an item or process to be developed under the agreement;

"(2) require that specific rights in technical data be established during agreement negotiations and be based upon negotiations between the United States and the potential party to the agreement, except in any case in which the Secretary of Defense determines, on the basis of criteria established in such policy guidance, that the establishment of rights during or through agreement negotiations would not be practicable; and

"(3) require the program manager for a major weapon system or an item of personnel protective equipment that is to be developed using a non-FAR agreement to assess the long-term technical data needs of such system or item.

"(b) Requirement to Include Provisions in Non-FAR Agreements.—A non-FAR agreement shall contain appropriate provisions relating to rights in technical data consistent with the policy guidance issued pursuant to subsection (a).

"(c) Definitions.—In this section:

"(1) The term 'non-FAR agreement' means an agreement that is not subject to laws pursuant to which the Federal Acquisition Regulation is prescribed, including—

"(A) a transaction authorized under section 2371 of title 10, United States Code [now 10 U.S.C. 4021]; and

"(B) a cooperative research and development agreement.

"(2) The term 'party', with respect to a non-FAR agreement, means a non-Federal entity and includes any of the following:

"(A) A contractor and its subcontractors (at any tier).

"(B) A joint venture.

"(C) A consortium.

"(d) Report on Life Cycle Planning for Technical Data Needs.—Not later than 270 days after the date of enactment of this Act [Oct. 14, 2008], the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the implementation of the requirements in section 2320(e) of title 10, United States Code [see 10 U.S.C. 3774(a), (b)], for the assessment of long-term technical data needs to sustain major weapon systems. Such report shall include—

"(1) a description of all relevant guidance or policies issued;

"(2) a description of the extent to which program managers have received training to better assess the long-term technical data needs of major weapon systems and subsystems; and

"(3) a description of one or more examples, if any, where a priced contract option has been used on major weapon systems for the future delivery of technical data and one or more examples, if any, where all relevant technical data were acquired upon contract award."

