
### §2442. Recruitment or use of child soldiers ###

§2442. Recruitment or use of child soldiers

(a) Offense.—Whoever knowingly—

(1) recruits, enlists, or conscripts a person to serve while such person is under 15 years of age in an armed force or group; or

(2) uses a person under 15 years of age to participate actively in hostilities;

knowing such person is under 15 years of age, shall be punished as provided in subsection (b).

(b) Penalty.—Whoever violates, or attempts or conspires to violate, subsection (a) shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than 20 years, or both and, if death of any person results, shall be fined under this title and imprisoned for any term of years or for life.

(c) Jurisdiction.—There is jurisdiction over an offense described in subsection (a), and any attempt or conspiracy to commit such offense, if—

(1) the alleged offender is a national of the United States (as defined in section 101(a)(22) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(22))) or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the United States (as defined in section 101(a)(20) of such Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(20)); [1](#2442_1_target)

(2) the alleged offender is a stateless person whose habitual residence is in the United States;

(3) the alleged offender is present in the United States, irrespective of the nationality of the alleged offender; or

(4) the offense occurs in whole or in part within the United States.

(d) Definitions.—In this section:

(1) Participate actively in hostilities.—The term "participate actively in hostilities" means taking part in—

(A) combat or military activities related to combat, including sabotage and serving as a decoy, a courier, or at a military checkpoint; or

(B) direct support functions related to combat, including transporting supplies or providing other services.

(2) Armed force or group.—The term "armed force or group" means any army, militia, or other military organization, whether or not it is state-sponsored, excluding any group assembled solely for nonviolent political association.

(Added Pub. L. 110–340, §2(a)(1), Oct. 3, 2008, 122 Stat. 3735.)

[1 So in original. An additional closing parenthesis probably should precede the semicolon.](#2442_1)

### **CHAPTER 119—WIRE AND ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS INTERCEPTION AND INTERCEPTION OF ORAL COMMUNICATIONS** ###

Sec.
2510.Definitions.
2511.Interception and disclosure of wire, oral, or electronic communications prohibited.
2512.Manufacture, distribution, possession, and advertising of wire, oral, or electronic communication intercepting devices prohibited.
2513.Confiscation of wire, oral, or electronic communication intercepting devices.
[2514.Repealed.]
2515.Prohibition of use as evidence of intercepted wire or oral communications.
2516.Authorization for interception of wire, oral, or electronic communications.
2517.Authorization for disclosure and use of intercepted wire, oral, or electronic communications.
2518.Procedure for interception of wire, oral, or electronic communications.
2519.Reports concerning intercepted wire, oral, or electronic communications.
2520.Recovery of civil damages authorized.
2521.Injunction against illegal interception.
2522.Enforcement of the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act.
2523.Executive agreements on access to data by foreign governments.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2018**—Pub. L. 115–141, div. V, §105(b), Mar. 23, 2018, 132 Stat. 1224, added item 2523.

**1994**—Pub. L. 103–414, title II, §201(b)(3), Oct. 25, 1994, 108 Stat. 4290, added item 2522.

**1988**—Pub. L. 100–690, title VII, §7035, Nov. 18, 1988, 102 Stat. 4398, substituted "wire, oral, or electronic" for "wire or oral" in items 2511, 2512, 2513, 2516, 2517, 2518, and 2519.

**1986**—Pub. L. 99–508, title I, §§101(c)(2), 110(b), Oct. 21, 1986, 100 Stat. 1851, 1859, inserted "AND ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS" in chapter heading and added item 2521.

**1970**—Pub. L. 91–452, title II, §227(b), Oct. 15, 1970, 84 Stat. 930, struck out item 2514 "Immunity of witnesses", which section was repealed four years following the sixtieth day after Oct. 15, 1970.

**1968**—Pub. L. 90–351, title III, §802, June 19, 1968, 82 Stat. 212, added chapter 119 and items 2510 to 2520.

