
### §220114. Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation ###

§220114. Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation

On dissolution or final liquidation of the corporation, any assets remaining after the discharge of all liabilities shall be distributed as provided by the board of governors, but in compliance with the bylaws. However, the assets of the corporation are irrevocably dedicated to charitable purposes and may not inure to the benefit of a private person except a fund, foundation, or organization operated exclusively for charitable purposes.

(Pub. L. 105–225, Aug. 12, 1998, 112 Stat. 1462.)

Historical and Revision Notes
| *Revised Section* | *Source (U.S. Code)* | *Source (Statutes at Large)* |
| 220114 | 36:1304(c). | Dec. 29, 1979, Pub. L. 96–165, §4(c), 93 Stat. 1269. |

The word "satisfaction" is omitted as included in "discharge", and the word "obligations" is omitted as included in "liabilities". The word "outstanding" is omitted as unnecessary. The words "as provided by" are substituted for "in accordance with the determination of" for consistency in the revised title. The words "and all Federal and State laws applicable thereto" are omitted as unnecessary. The word "organization" is substituted for "association, or corporation" to omit unnecessary words.

### **CHAPTER 2203—UNITED STATES CAPITOL HISTORICAL SOCIETY** ###

Sec.
220301.Organization.
220302.Purposes.
220303.Membership.
220304.Governing body.
220305.Powers.
220306.Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, insignia, marks, and words.
220307.Tax exemption.
220308.Restrictions.
220309.Duty to maintain corporate status.
220310.Principal office.
220311.Records and inspection.
220312.Service of process.
220313.Liability for acts of officers and agents.
220314.Annual report and audit.
220315.Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation.

