
### §2908. Small bank regulatory relief ###

§2908. Small bank regulatory relief

#### (a) In general ####

Except as provided in subsections (b) and (c), any regulated financial institution with aggregate assets of not more than $250,000,000 shall be subject to routine examination under this chapter—

(1) not more than once every 60 months for an institution that has achieved a rating of "outstanding record of meeting community credit needs" at its most recent examination under section 2903 of this title;

(2) not more than once every 48 months for an institution that has received a rating of "satisfactory record of meeting community credit needs" at its most recent examination under section 2903 of this title; and

(3) as deemed necessary by the appropriate Federal financial supervisory agency, for an institution that has received a rating of less than "satisfactory record of meeting community credit needs" at its most recent examination under section 2903 of this title.

#### (b) No exception from CRA examinations in connection with applications for deposit facilities ####

A regulated financial institution described in subsection (a) shall remain subject to examination under this chapter in connection with an application for a deposit facility.

#### (c) Discretion ####

A regulated financial institution described in subsection (a) may be subject to more frequent or less frequent examinations for reasonable cause under such circumstances as may be determined by the appropriate Federal financial supervisory agency.

(Pub. L. 95–128, title VIII, §809, as added Pub. L. 106–102, title VII, §712, Nov. 12, 1999, 113 Stat. 1469.)

### **CHAPTER 31—NATIONAL CONSUMER COOPERATIVE BANK** ###

Sec.
3001.Congressional statement of findings and purpose.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—ESTABLISHMENT AND OPERATION ####

3011.Creation and charter; principal office; venue; purposes.
3012.General corporate powers.
3013.Board of Directors.
3014.Capitalization.
3015.Eligibility of cooperatives.
3016.Annual meetings; notice, agenda, etc.
3017.Bonds, debentures, notes and other evidences of indebtedness.
3017a.Class A notes as paid-in capital of the Bank.
3018.Loans.
3019.Taxation by State, county, etc., taxing authority; Federal tax status.
3020.Quarters and space for principal and other offices.
3021.Annual report to Congress; contents.
3022.Authorization of additional appropriations; restrictions on use.
3023.Appeal procedures applicable upon denial or restriction of application for assistance.
3024.Conflict of interest rules; adoption and publication; requirements.
3025.Examination and audit.
3026.Acceleration of the Final Government Equity Redemption Date.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—OFFICE OF SELF-HELP DEVELOPMENT AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE ####

3041.Establishment; appointment, etc., of Director.
3042.Authorization of appropriations for advances; deposits into separate Account in Bank; availability of amounts.
3043.Advances.
3044.Services and information for organization, financing, and management of cooperatives; availability; agreements for development and dissemination; funding.
3045.Investigations and surveys respecting new services, etc., by cooperative not-for-profit organizations.
3046.Financial analysis and market surveys at request of eligible cooperative.
3047.Programs for training directors and staff of eligible cooperatives, and public education; development and availability; scope and implementation.
3048.Cooperation with Federal agencies offering programs for consumer cooperatives in disseminating information.
3049.Authorization of appropriations for administration; availability of amounts.
3050.Fees for providing technical assistance services; waiver; accounting and availability.
3051.Nonprofit corporation.

