
### §3906. Injunctive orders issued by United States district courts ###

§3906. Injunctive orders issued by United States district courts

Any district court of the United States may issue an order enjoining a risk retention group from soliciting or selling insurance, or operating, in any State (or in all States) or in any territory or possession of the United States upon a finding of such court that such group is in hazardous financial condition. Such order shall be binding on such group, its officers, agents, and employees, and on any other person acting in active concert with any such officer, agent, or employee, if such other person has actual notice of such order.

(Pub. L. 97–45, §7, as added Pub. L. 99–563, §9, Oct. 27, 1986, 100 Stat. 3176.)

### **CHAPTER 66—PROMOTION OF EXPORT TRADE** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—EXPORT TRADING COMPANIES AND TRADE ASSOCIATIONS ####

Sec.
4001.Congressional findings and declaration of purpose.
4002.Definitions.
4003.Office of Export Trade in Department of Commerce.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—EXPORT TRADE CERTIFICATES OF REVIEW ####

4011.Export trade promotion duties of Secretary of Commerce.
4012.Application for issuance of certificate of review.
4013.Issuance of certificate.
4014.Reporting requirement; amendment of certificate; revocation.
4015.Judicial review; admissibility.
4016.Protection conferred by certificate of review.
4017.Guidelines.
4018.Annual reports.
4019.Disclosure of information.
4020.Rules and regulations.
4021.Definitions.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—EXPORT PROMOTION PROGRAMS ####

4051.Requirement of prior authorization.
4052.Authorization of appropriations.
4053.Barter arrangements.

### SUBCHAPTER I—EXPORT TRADING COMPANIES AND TRADE ASSOCIATIONS ###

