
### §7433. Assistance to international efforts ###

§7433. Assistance to international efforts

#### (a) Assistance ####

Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit the United States from rendering assistance to international efforts to bring to justice Saddam Hussein, Slobodan Milosovic, Osama bin Laden, other members of Al Queda,[1](#7433_1_target) leaders of Islamic Jihad, and other foreign nationals accused of genocide, war crimes or crimes against humanity, or from rendering assistance to the International Criminal Court to assist with investigations and prosecutions of foreign nationals related to the Situation in Ukraine, including to support victims and witnesses.

#### (b) Authority ####

Assistance made available pursuant to subsection (a) of this section may be made available notwithstanding section 7401 of this title, except that none of the funds made available pursuant to this subsection may be made available for the purpose of supporting investigations or prosecutions of U.S. servicemembers or other covered United States persons or covered allied persons as such terms are defined in section 7432 of this title.

#### (c) Notification ####

The Secretary of State shall notify the Committees on Appropriations, the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, of any amounts obligated pursuant to subsection (b) not later than 15 days before such obligation is made.

(Pub. L. 107–206, title II, §2015, Aug. 2, 2002, 116 Stat. 909; Pub. L. 117–328, div. K, title VII, §7073(b), Dec. 29, 2022, 136 Stat. 5092.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**2022**—Pub. L. 117–328 substituted subsecs. (a) to (c) for "Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit the United States from rendering assistance to international efforts to bring to justice Saddam Hussein, Slobodan Milosovic, Osama bin Laden, other members of Al Queda, leaders of Islamic Jihad, and other foreign nationals accused of genocide, war crimes or crimes against humanity."

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Rule of Construction ####

Nothing in amendment by Pub. L. 117–328 to be construed to modify the existing roles or authorities of any Federal agency or official, see section 7073(c) of Pub. L. 117–328, set out as a note under section 7423 of this title.

[1 So in original.](#7433_1)

### **CHAPTER 82—AFGHANISTAN FREEDOM SUPPORT** ###

Sec.
7501.Definition.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—ECONOMIC AND DEMOCRATIC DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE FOR AFGHANISTAN ####

7511.Declaration of policy.
7512.Purposes of assistance.
7513.Authorization of assistance.
7514.Coordination of assistance.
7515.Sense of Congress regarding promoting cooperation in opium producing areas.
7516.Administrative provisions.
7517.Relationship to other authority.
7518.Authorization of appropriations.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—MILITARY ASSISTANCE FOR AFGHANISTAN AND CERTAIN OTHER FOREIGN COUNTRIES AND INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS ####

7531 to 7538. Omitted.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS ####

7551.Requirement to comply with procedures relating to the prohibition on assistance to drug traffickers.
7552.Sense of Congress regarding protecting Afghanistan's President.
7553.Donor contributions to Afghanistan and reports.
7554.Reports.
7555.Formulation of long-term strategy for Afghanistan.
7556.Benchmarks to evaluate the progress being made toward the transition of security responsibilities for Afghanistan to the Government of Afghanistan.

