
### §2115. Acquisition, operation, and maintenance of Lafayette Escadrille Memorial ###

§2115. Acquisition, operation, and maintenance of Lafayette Escadrille Memorial

The American Battle Monuments Commission may enter into an agreement with the Lafayette Escadrille Memorial Foundation to acquire, operate, and maintain the Lafayette Escadrille Memorial in Marnes-la-Coquette, France. Under such an agreement, the Commission shall make necessary arrangements to ensure the ongoing maintenance of the memorial, including the cemetery at the memorial that contains the remains of 49 aviators of the United States who died during World War I.

(Added Pub. L. 114–227, §1(a), Sept. 29, 2016, 130 Stat. 934.)

### **CHAPTER 23—UNITED STATES HOLOCAUST MEMORIAL MUSEUM** ###

Sec.
2301.Establishment of the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum; functions.
2302.Functions of the Council; membership.
2303.Compensation; travel expenses; full-time officers or employees of United States or Members of Congress.
2304.Administrative provisions.
2305.Staff.
2306.Insurance for Museum.
2307.Gifts, bequests, and devises of property; tax treatment.
2308.Annual report.
2309.Audit of financial transactions.
2310.Authorization of appropriations.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Prior Provisions ####

A prior chapter 23, consisting of sections 2301 to 2309, related to the United States Holocaust Memorial Council, prior to the general amendment of this chapter by Pub. L. 106–292, §1.

#### Amendments ####

**2006**—Pub. L. 109–284, §5(3), Sept. 27, 2006, 120 Stat. 1211, substituted "Museum" for "museum" in item 2306.

