
### §6324. Definitions ###

§6324. Definitions

As used in this subchapter—

(1) the term "highly enriched uranium" means uranium enriched to 20 percent or more in the isotope U–235;

(2) the term "IAEA" means the International Atomic Energy Agency;

(3) the term "near real time material accountancy" means a method of accounting for the location, quantity, and disposition of special fissionable material at facilities that store or process such material, in which verification of peaceful use is continuously achieved by means of frequent physical inventories and the use of in-process instrumentation;

(4) the term "special fissionable material" has the meaning given that term by Article XX(1) of the Statute of the International Atomic Energy Agency, done at the Headquarters of the United Nations on October 26, 1956;

(5) the term "the Treaty" means the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, signed at Washington, London, and Moscow on July 1, 1968; and

(6) the terms "IAEA safeguards", "non-nuclear-weapon state", "nuclear explosive device", and "special nuclear material" have the meanings given those terms in section 6305 of this title.

(Pub. L. 103–236, title VIII, §844, Apr. 30, 1994, 108 Stat. 524.)

### **CHAPTER 73—INTERNATIONAL RELIGIOUS FREEDOM** ###

Sec.
6401.Findings; policy.
6402.Definitions.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—DEPARTMENT OF STATE ACTIVITIES ####

6411.Office on International Religious Freedom; Ambassador at Large for International Religious Freedom.
6412.Reports.
6413.Establishment of religious freedom Internet site.
6414.High-level contacts with nongovernmental organizations.
6415.Programs and allocations of funds by United States missions abroad.
6416.Equal access to United States missions abroad for conducting religious activities.
6417.Prisoner lists and issue briefs on religious freedom concerns.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—COMMISSION ON INTERNATIONAL RELIGIOUS FREEDOM ####

6431.Establishment and composition.
6432.Duties of Commission.
6432a.Powers of the Commission.
6432b.Commission personnel matters.
6433.Report of Commission.
6433a.Strategic plan.
6434.Applicability of other laws.
6435.Authorization of appropriations.
6435a.Standards of conduct and disclosure.
6436.Termination.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—PRESIDENTIAL ACTIONS ####

#### Part A—Targeted Responses to Violations of Religious Freedom Abroad ####

6441.Presidential actions in response to violations of religious freedom.
6442.Presidential actions in response to particularly severe violations of religious freedom.
6442a.Non-state actor designations.
6443.Consultations.
6444.Report to Congress.
6445.Description of Presidential actions.
6446.Effects on existing contracts.
6447.Presidential waiver.
6448.Publication in Federal Register.
6449.Termination of Presidential actions.
6450.Preclusion of judicial review.
#### Part B—Strengthening Existing Law ####

6461.Exports of certain items used in particularly severe violations of religious freedom.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—REFUGEE, ASYLUM, AND CONSULAR MATTERS ####

6471.Use of Annual Report.
6472.Reform of refugee policy.
6473.Reform of asylum policy.
6473a.Designated persons list for particularly severe violations of religious freedom.
6474.Studies on effect of expedited removal provisions on asylum claims.
#### SUBCHAPTER V—MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS ####

6481.Business codes of conduct.
6482.Voluntary codes of conduct for United States institutions of higher education outside the United States.
6483.Sense of Congress regarding national security strategy to promote religious freedom through United States foreign policy.

