
### §5624. Transfer of positions in Corrections Calendar Office ###

§5624. Transfer of positions in Corrections Calendar Office

(a)(1) Effective October 1, 2003—

(A) 3 of the positions in the Corrections Calendar Office, and the functions associated with such positions, shall be transferred to the Office of the Speaker; and

(B) 2 of the positions in the Corrections Calendar Office, and the functions associated with such positions, shall be transferred to the Office of the Minority Leader.

(2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in the case of any individual who is an incumbent of a position transferred under paragraph (1) at the time of the transfer, the total number of days of annual leave and the total number of days of sick leave which were provided by the Corrections Calendar Office to the individual and which remain unused as of the date of the transfer shall remain available for the individual to use after the transfer.

(b) Effective with respect to fiscal year 2004 and each succeeding fiscal year, the lump sum allowance for salaries and expenses of the Corrections Calendar Office provided under House Resolution 130, One Hundred Fifth Congress, agreed to April 24, 1997, as enacted into permanent law by section 101 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1998 (2 U.S.C. 74d–1 et seq.) [now 2 U.S.C. 5622 and 5623], is transferred as follows:

(1) 63.5 percent of such allowance shall be transferred to the Office of the Speaker.

(2) 36.5 percent of such allowance shall be transferred to the Office of the Minority Leader.

(Pub. L. 108–83, title I, §106, Sept. 30, 2003, 117 Stat. 1018.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

Section was formerly classified as a note under section 74d of this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

### **CHAPTER 61—SENATE LEADERSHIP** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL ####

Sec.
6101.Transfer of funds from appropriations account of the Office of the Vice President and the Offices of the Secretaries for the Majority and Minority to the Senate contingent fund.
6102.Expense allowance of Majority and Minority Leaders of Senate; expense allowance of Majority and Minority Whips; methods of payment; taxability.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—VICE PRESIDENT AND PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE ####

6111.Compensation of President pro tempore of Senate.
6112.Compensation of Deputy President pro tempore of Senate.
6113.Appointment and compensation of employees by President pro tempore of Senate.
6114.Appointment and compensation of Administrative Assistant, Legislative Assistant, and Executive Secretary for Deputy President pro tempore of Senate.
6115.Expense allowance of President pro tempore of Senate; methods of payment; taxability.
6116.Special delivery postage allowance for President of Senate.
6117.Stationery allowance for President of Senate.
6118.Long-distance telephone calls for Vice President.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—MAJORITY AND MINORITY LEADERS AND WHIPS ####

6131.Appointment of employees by Senate Majority and Minority Leaders; compensation.
6132.Assistants to Senate Majority and Minority Leaders for Floor Operations; establishment of positions; appointment; compensation.
6133.Chiefs of Staff for Senate Majority and Minority Leaders; appointment; compensation.
6134.Compensation and appointment of employees by Senate Majority and Minority Whips.
6135.Representation Allowance Account for Majority and Minority Leaders of Senate.
6136.Transfer of funds from representation allowance of Majority and Minority Leaders of Senate to expense allowance; availability; definitions.
6137.Transfer of funds from appropriations account of Majority and Minority Leaders of Senate to appropriations account, Miscellaneous Items, within Senate contingent fund.
6138.Transfer of funds from appropriations account of Majority and Minority Whips of Senate to appropriations account, Miscellaneous Items, within Senate contingent fund.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—MAJORITY AND MINORITY SECRETARIES, CONFERENCES, AND POLICY COMMITTEES ####

6151.Compensation of Secretaries for Senate Majority and Minority.
6152.Appointment and compensation of employees by Secretaries for Senate Majority and Minority; gross compensation.
6153.Salaries and expenses for Senate Majority and Minority Policy Committees and Senate Majority and Minority Conference Committees.
6154.Offices of the Secretaries of the Conference of the Majority and the Conference of the Minority.
6155.Payment of expenses of Conference of Majority and Conference of Minority from Senate contingent fund.
6156.Appointment and compensation of employees by Secretary of Conference of Majority of Senate and Secretary of Conference of Minority of Senate.
6157.Services of consultants to Majority and Minority Conference Committee of Senate.
6158.Utilization of funds for specialized training of professional staff for Majority and Minority Conference Committee of Senate.
6159.Expense allowance for Chairmen of Majority and Minority Conference Committees of Senate; method of payment; taxability.
6160.Expense allowance for Chairmen of Majority and Minority Policy Committees of Senate; method of payment; taxability.

### SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL ###

