
### §4509. Contracts for advisory and assistance services: cost comparison studies ###

§4509. Contracts for advisory and assistance services: cost comparison studies

(a) Requirement.—(1)(A) Before the Secretary of Defense enters into a contract described in subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall determine whether Department of Defense personnel have the capability to perform the services proposed to be covered by the contract.

(B) Subparagraph (A) applies to any contract of the Department of Defense for advisory and assistance services that is expected to have a value in excess of $100,000.

(2) If the Secretary determines that Department of Defense personnel have the capability to perform the services to be covered by the contract, the Secretary shall conduct a study comparing the cost of performing the services with Department of Defense personnel and the cost of performing the services with contractor personnel.

(b) Waiver.—The Secretary of Defense may, pursuant to guidelines prescribed by the Secretary, waive the requirement to perform a cost comparison study under subsection (a)(2) based on factors that are not related to cost.

(Added Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title III, §363(a)(1), Oct. 5, 1994, 108 Stat. 2733, §2410l; renumbered §4509, Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §1856(g), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4275.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Prior Provisions ####

A prior section 4531, act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 253, authorized Secretary of the Army to procure materials and facilities necessary to maintain and support the Army, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 103–160, div. A, title VIII, §823(2), Nov. 30, 1993, 107 Stat. 1707.

A prior section 4532 was renumbered section 7532 of this title.

Prior sections 4533 to 4535 were repealed by Pub. L. 103–160, div. A, title VIII, §823(3)–(5), Nov. 30, 1993, 107 Stat. 1707.

Section 4533, act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 254, related to purchases of army rations.

Section 4534, act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 254, related to subsistence supplies, contract stipulations, and place of delivery on inspection.

Section 4535, act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 254, provided that exceptional subsistence supplies could be purchased without advertising.

A prior section 4536 was renumbered section 7536 of this title.

Prior sections 4537 and 4538 were repealed by Pub. L. 103–160, div. A, title VIII, §823(6), (7), Nov. 30, 1993, 107 Stat. 1707.

Section 4537, acts Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 254; Nov. 2, 1966, Pub. L. 89–718, §8(a), 80 Stat. 1117; Dec. 12, 1980, Pub. L. 96–513, title V, §512(14), 94 Stat. 2930, authorized Secretary of the Army to obtain assistance of United States mapping agencies in making and developing military surveys and maps.

Section 4538, acts Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 255; Dec. 12, 1980, Pub. L. 96–513, title V, §512(15), 94 Stat. 2930, related to exchange and reclamation of unserviceable ammunition.

A prior section 4539, act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 255, provided for purchase of horses and mules in open market at Army posts, within maximum prices prescribed by Secretary of the Army, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 91–482, §1(a), Oct. 21, 1970, 84 Stat. 1082.

A prior section 4540 was renumbered section 7540 of this title.

Another prior section 4541 was renumbered section 7541 of this title.

Prior sections 4542 to 4544, 4551 to 4555, and 4561 to 4565 were renumbered sections 7542 to 7544, 7551 to 7555, and 7561 to 7565 of this title, respectively.

#### Amendments ####

**2021**—Pub. L. 116–283 renumbered section 2410l of this title as this section.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date of 2021 Amendment ####

Amendment by Pub. L. 116–283 effective Jan. 1, 2022, with additional provisions for delayed implementation and applicability of existing law, see section 1801(d) of Pub. L. 116–283, set out as a note preceding section 3001 of this title.

#### Effective Date ####

Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title III, §363(c), Oct. 5, 1994, 108 Stat. 2734, provided that: "Section 2410l of title 10, United States Code [now 10 U.S.C. 4509], as added by subsection (a), shall take effect 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 5, 1994]."

#### Procedures for Conduct of Studies ####

Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title III, §363(b), Oct. 5, 1994, 108 Stat. 2734, provided that: "The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe the following procedures:

"(1) Procedures for carrying out a cost comparison study under subsection (a)(2) of section 2410l of title 10, United States Code [now 10 U.S.C. 4509(a)(2)], as added by subsection (a), which may contain a requirement that the cost comparison study include consideration of factors that are not related to cost, including the quality of the service required to be performed, the availability of Department of Defense personnel, the duration and recurring nature of the services to be performed, and the consistency of the workload.

"(2) Procedures for reviewing contracts entered into after a waiver under subsection (b) of such section to determine whether the contract is justified and sufficiently documented."

### **CHAPTER 343—[RESERVED]** ###

SubchapterSec.
I.[Reserved]4541
II.[Reserved]4551

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Prior Provisions ####

A prior chapter 343 "ACQUISITION OF SERVICES", consisting of reserved section 4541, was repealed by Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §1856(b), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4273.

Another prior chapter 343 was renumbered chapter 723 of this title.

#### Amendments ####

Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title XVII, §1701(i)(9)(B), Dec. 27, 2021, 135 Stat. 2142, generally amended the text inserted by Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §1856(j), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4276, which added this chapter, resulting in substitution of "[RESERVED]" for "ACQUISITION OF SERVICES OF CONTRACTORS PERFORMING PRIVATE SECURITY FUNCTIONS" in chapter heading and "[Reserved]" for "Contractors Performing Private Security Functions in Areas of Combat Operations or Other Significant Military Operations" in item for subchapter I and for "Standards and Certification for Private Security" in item for subchapter II.

### SUBCHAPTER I—[RESERVED] ###

Sec.
4541.[Reserved].

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title XVII, §1701(i)(9)(B), Dec. 27, 2021, 135 Stat. 2142, generally amended the text inserted by Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §1856(j), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4276, which added this subchapter, resulting in substitution of "[RESERVED]" for "CONTRACTORS PERFORMING PRIVATE SECURITY FUNCTIONS IN AREAS OF COMBAT OPERATIONS OR OTHER SIGNIFICANT MILITARY OPERATIONS" in subchapter heading and no change in item 4541.

### SUBCHAPTER II—[RESERVED] ###

Sec.
4551.[Reserved].

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

Pub. L. 117–81, div. A, title XVII, §1701(i)(9)(B), Dec. 27, 2021, 135 Stat. 2142, generally amended the text inserted by Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §1856(j), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4276, which added this subchapter, resulting in substitution of "[RESERVED]" for "STANDARDS AND CERTIFICATION FOR PRIVATE SECURITY CONTRACTORS" in subchapter heading and no change in item 4551.

### **CHAPTER 345—ACQUISITION OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY** ###

Sec.
4571.Information technology acquisition: planning and oversight processes.
4572.[Reserved].
4573.[Reserved].
4574.[Reserved].
4575.[Reserved].
4576.Requirement for consideration of certain matters during acquisition of noncommercial computer software.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Prior Provisions ####

A prior chapter 345 "ACQUISITION OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY", consisting of reserved section 4571, was repealed by Pub. L. 116–283, div. A, title XVIII, §1857(a), Jan. 1, 2021, 134 Stat. 4276.

Another prior chapter 345 was renumbered chapter 725 of this title.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Guidance on Acquisition of Business Systems ####

Pub. L. 114–92, div. A, title VIII, §883(e), Nov. 25, 2015, 129 Stat. 947, provided that: "The Secretary of Defense shall issue guidance for major automated information systems acquisition programs to promote the use of best acquisition, contracting, requirement development, systems engineering, program management, and sustainment practices, including—

"(1) ensuring that an acquisition program baseline has been established within two years after program initiation;

"(2) ensuring that program requirements have not changed in a manner that increases acquisition costs or delays the schedule, without sufficient cause and only after maximum efforts to reengineer business processes prior to changing requirements;

"(3) policies to evaluate commercial off-the-shelf business systems for security, resilience, reliability, interoperability, and integration with existing interrelated systems where such system integration and interoperability are essential to Department of Defense operations;

"(4) policies to work with commercial off-the-shelf business system developers and owners in adapting systems for Department of Defense use;

"(5) policies to perform Department of Defense legacy system audits to determine which systems are related to or rely upon the system to be replaced or integrated with commercial off-the-shelf business systems;

"(6) policies to perform full backup of systems that will be changed or replaced by the installation of commercial off-the-shelf business systems prior to installation and deployment to ensure reconstitution of the system to a functioning state should it become necessary;

"(7) policies to engage the research and development activities and laboratories of the Department of Defense to improve acquisition outcomes; and

"(8) policies to refine and improve developmental and operational testing of business processes that are supported by the major automated information systems."

#### Designation of Military Department Entity Responsible for Acquisition of Critical Cyber Capabilities ####

Pub. L. 114–92, div. A, title XVI, §1645, Nov. 25, 2015, 129 Stat. 1117, which required the Secretary of Defense to designate an entity within a military department to be responsible for the acquisition of certain critical cyber capabilities, was repealed by Pub. L. 117–263, div. A, title XV, §1509(j), Dec. 23, 2022, 136 Stat. 2890.

#### Supervision of the Acquisition of Cloud Computing Capabilities ####

Pub. L. 113–66, div. A, title IX, §938, Dec. 26, 2013, 127 Stat. 835, provided that:

"(a) Supervision.—

"(1) In general.—The Secretary of Defense shall, acting through the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence [now Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security], the Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense, and the Chairman of the Joint Requirements Oversight Council, supervise the following:

"(A) Review, development, modification, and approval of requirements for cloud computing solutions for data analysis and storage by the Armed Forces and the Defense Agencies, including requirements for cross-domain, enterprise-wide discovery and correlation of data stored in cloud and non-cloud computing databases, relational and non-relational databases, and hybrid databases.

"(B) Review, development, modification, approval, and implementation of plans for the competitive acquisition of cloud computing systems or services to meet requirements described in subparagraph (A), including plans for the transition from current computing systems to systems or services acquired.

"(C) Development and implementation of plans to ensure that the cloud systems or services acquired pursuant to subparagraph (B) are interoperable and universally accessible and usable through attribute-based access controls.

"(D) Integration of plans under subparagraphs (B) and (C) with enterprise-wide plans of the Armed Forces and the Department of Defense for the Joint Information Environment and the Defense Intelligence Information Environment.

"(2) Direction.—The Secretary shall provide direction to the Armed Forces and the Defense Agencies on the matters covered by paragraph (1) by not later than March 15, 2014.

"(b) Integration With Intelligence Community Efforts.—The Secretary shall coordinate with the Director of National Intelligence to ensure that activities under this section are integrated with the Intelligence Community Information Technology Enterprise in order to achieve interoperability, information sharing, and other efficiencies.

"(c) Limitation.—The requirements of subparagraphs (B), (C), and (D) of subsection (a)(1) shall not apply to a contract for the acquisition of cloud computing capabilities in an amount less than $1,000,000.

"(d) Rule of Construction.—Nothing in this section shall be construed to alter or affect the authorities or responsibilities of the Director of National Intelligence under section 102A of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3024)."

