
### §1447f. Authorization of appropriations ###

§1447f. Authorization of appropriations

#### (a) In general ####

For purposes of carrying out the provisions of this chapter, there are authorized to be appropriated $18,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1992 through 1996.

#### (b) Allocation ####

(1) Of funds appropriated in any fiscal year, not more than $500,000 shall be reserved for administration of this chapter by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the Environmental Protection Agency.

(2) Funds appropriated in a fiscal year which are available after allocation pursuant to paragraph (1), shall be used to support the administrative costs of Boards established pursuant to section 1447b(a) of this title, provided that such funding does not exceed $300,000 for each research Board in each fiscal year.

(3) Seventy-five percent of funds appropriated in a fiscal year available after allocation pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2), shall be allocated equally among Boards located in regions submitting research project grant applications pursuant to section 1447d(b) of this title.

(4) Twenty-five percent of funds appropriated in a fiscal year available after allocation pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2), shall be allocated among Boards located in regions submitting research project grant applications pursuant to section 1447d(b) of this title which, in the judgment of the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, in consultation with the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, propose the most needed and highest quality research.

(Pub. L. 92–532, title IV, §407, as added Pub. L. 101–593, title III, §301, Nov. 16, 1990, 104 Stat. 2969.)

### **CHAPTER 33—COASTAL ZONE MANAGEMENT** ###

Sec.
1451.Congressional findings.
1452.Congressional declaration of policy.
1453.Definitions.
1454.Submittal of State program for approval.
1455.Administrative grants.
1455a.Coastal resource improvement program.
1455b.Protecting coastal waters.
1456.Coordination and cooperation.
1456–1.Authorization of the Coastal and Estuarine Land Conservation Program.
1456a.Coastal Zone Management Fund.
1456b.Coastal zone enhancement grants.
1456c.Technical assistance.
1456d.Coastal and Estuarine Land Conservation Program.
1457.Public hearings.
1458.Review of performance.
1459.Records and audit.
1460.Walter B. Jones excellence in coastal zone management awards.
1461.National Estuarine Research Reserve System.
1462.Coastal zone management reports.
1463.Rules and regulations.
1463a.Omitted.
1463b.National Coastal Resources Research and Development Institute.
1464.Authorization of appropriations.
1465.Appeals to the Secretary.
1466.Appeals relating to offshore mineral development.
1467.Establishment of the Digital Coast.
1468.Regional Ocean Partnerships.

