
### §3620. Congressional notification of intelligence collection adjustments ###

§3620. Congressional notification of intelligence collection adjustments

#### (a) Notification ####

Not later than 30 days after the date on which the Director of the National Security Agency determines the occurrence of an intelligence collection adjustment, the Director shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees, the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives a notification of the intelligence collection adjustment.

#### (b) Definitions ####

In this section:

#### (1) Congressional intelligence committees ####

The term "congressional intelligence committees" has the meaning given that term in section 3003 of this title.

#### (2) Intelligence collection adjustment ####

The term "intelligence collection adjustment" includes a change by the United States Government to a policy on intelligence collection or the prioritization thereof that results in a significant loss of intelligence.

(Pub. L. 86–36, §22, as added Pub. L. 118–31, div. G, title III, §7351, Dec. 22, 2023, 137 Stat. 1064.)

### **CHAPTER 48—DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION** ###

Sec.
3701.Definitions.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—PROGRAM AUTHORITIES ####

3711.Authority to carry out Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Program.
3712.Use of funds for certain emergent threats or opportunities.
3713.Authority for urgent threat reduction activities under Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Program.
3714.Use of funds for unspecified purposes or for increased amounts.
3715.Use of contributions to Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Program.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—RESTRICTIONS AND LIMITATIONS ####

3731.Prohibition on use of funds for specified purposes.
3732.Requirement for on-site managers.
3733.Limitation on use of funds until certain permits obtained.
3734.Limitation on availability of funds for Cooperative Threat Reduction activities with Russian Federation.
3735.Limitation on availability of funds for Cooperative Threat Reduction activities in People's Republic of China.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—RECURRING CERTIFICATIONS AND REPORTS ####

3741, 3742. Repealed.
3743.Reports on activities and assistance under Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Program.
3744.Metrics for Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Program.
#### SUBCHAPTER IV—TRANSITION PROVISIONS ####

3751.Transition provisions.

