
### §4147. Administrative expenses ###

§4147. Administrative expenses

There are authorized to be appropriated out of any moneys in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated such sums as may be necessary (but not to exceed the total covered into the Treasury to the credit of miscellaneous receipts under section 4336(d) [1](#4147_1_target) of this title) to enable the Commission and the Treasury Department to pay their administrative expenses in carrying out their respective functions under this subchapter.

(July 3, 1948, ch. 826, title II, §217, as added Pub. L. 87–846, title I, §103, Oct. 22, 1962, 76 Stat. 1113.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### References in Text ####

Section 4336(d) of this title, referred to in text, authorized Attorney General to cover into the Treasury certain sums for deposit into War Claims Fund, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 100–418, title II, §2501(a)(1), Aug. 23, 1988, 102 Stat. 1371. See section 4336(b) of this title.

#### Codification ####

Section was formerly classified to section 2017p of the former Appendix to this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

[1 See References in Text note below.](#4147_1)

### **CHAPTER 52—RESTITUTION FOR WORLD WAR II INTERNMENT OF JAPANESE-AMERICANS AND ALEUTS** ###

Sec.
4201.Purposes.
4202.Statement of the Congress.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—UNITED STATES CITIZENS OF JAPANESE ANCESTRY AND RESIDENT JAPANESE ALIENS ####

4211.Short title.
4212.Remedies with respect to criminal convictions.
4213.Consideration of Commission findings by departments and agencies.
4214.Trust Fund.
4215.Restitution.
4216.Board of Directors of the Fund.
4217.Documents relating to the internment.
4218.Definitions.
4219.Compliance with Budget Act.
4220.Entitlements to eligible individuals.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—ALEUTIAN AND PRIBILOF ISLANDS RESTITUTION ####

4231.Short title.
4232.Definitions.
4233.Aleutian and Pribilof Islands Restitution Fund.
4234.Appointment of Administrator.
4235.Compensation for community losses.
4236.Individual compensation of eligible Aleuts.
4237.Attu Island restitution program.
4238.Compliance with Budget Act.
4239.Severability.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—TERRITORY OR PROPERTY CLAIMS AGAINST UNITED STATES ####

4251.Exclusion of claims.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Codification ####

Pub. L. 100–383, Aug. 10, 1988, 102 Stat. 903, comprising this chapter, was formerly set out in the Appendix to this title, prior to the elimination of the Appendix to this title and the editorial reclassification of the Act as this chapter. For disposition of sections of the former Appendix to this title, see Table II, set out preceding section 1 of this title.

