
### [§§3323 to 3328. Repealed. Pub. L. 101–73, title IX, §964(a), Aug. 9, 1989, 103 Stat. 505] ###

[§§3323 to 3328. Repealed. Pub. L. 101–73, title IX, §964(a), Aug. 9, 1989, 103 Stat. 505]

Section 3323, act June 25, 1948, ch. 645, 62 Stat. 829, related to challenging the array of grand jurors or individual grand jurors and motions to dismiss. See Rule 6(b) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, set out in the Appendix to this title.

Section 3324, act June 25, 1948, ch. 645, 62 Stat. 829, related to the appointment of the grand jury foreman and deputy foreman, oaths, affirmations and indictments, and records of jurors concurring. See Rule 6(c) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, set out in the Appendix to this title.

Section 3325, act June 25, 1948, ch. 645, 62 Stat. 829, related to persons who may be present while the grand jury is in session, and exclusion while the jury is deliberating or voting. See Rule 6(d) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, set out in the Appendix to this title.

Section 3326, act June 25, 1948, ch. 645, 62 Stat. 829, related to disclosure of proceedings to government attorneys, disclosure by direction of the court or permission of the defendant, and secrecy of the indictment. See Rule 6(e) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, set out in the Appendix to this title.

Section 3327, act June 25, 1948, ch. 645, 62 Stat. 830, related to concurrence of 12 or more jurors in the indictment and return of the indictment to the judge in open court. See Rule 6(f) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, set out in the Appendix to this title.

Section 3328, act June 25, 1948, ch. 645, 62 Stat. 830, related to discharge of grand jury by court, limitation of service, and excusing jurors for cause. See Rule 6(g) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, set out in the Appendix to this title.

### **CHAPTER 216—SPECIAL GRAND JURY** ###

Sec.
3331.Summoning and term.
3332.Powers and duties.
3333.Reports.
3334.General provisions.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**1970**—Pub. L. 91–452, title I, §101(a), Oct. 15, 1970, 84 Stat. 923, added chapter 216 and items 3331 to 3334.

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### National Commission on Individual Rights ####

Pub. L. 91–452, title XII, §§1201–1211, Oct. 15, 1970, 84 Stat. 960, 961, established the National Commission on Individual Rights to conduct a comprehensive study and review of Federal laws and practices relating to special grand juries authorized under chapter 216 of this title, dangerous special offender sentencing under section 3575 of this title, wiretapping and electronic surveillance, bail reform and preventive detention, no-knock search warrants, the accumulation of data on individuals by Federal agencies as authorized by law or acquired by executive action, and other practices which in its opinion might infringe upon the individual rights of the people of the United States. The Commission was required to make interim reports at least every two years and a final report to the President and Congress six years after Jan. 1, 1972, and was to cease to exist 60 days after submission of the final report.

