
### §659. Sea lions; acts prohibiting killing repealed ###

§659. Sea lions; acts prohibiting killing repealed

All Acts and parts of Acts making it unlawful to kill sea lions, as game animals or otherwise, in the waters of the Territory of Alaska are repealed.

(June 16, 1934, ch. 556, 48 Stat. 976; 1939 Reorg. Plan No. II, §4(e), eff. July 1, 1939, 4 F.R. 2731, 53 Stat. 1433; Pub. L. 92–522, title I, §113(b), Oct. 21, 1972, 86 Stat. 1042.)

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Amendments ####

**1972**—Pub. L. 92–522 struck out proviso prohibiting killing of sea lions in waters of Alaska except under rules and regulations prescribed by Secretary of the Interior.

#### **Executive Documents** ####

#### Transfer of Functions ####

For transfer of functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of Department of the Interior, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Interior, with power to delegate, see Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1950, §§1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, 64 Stat. 1262, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

Reorg. Plan No. II of 1939, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, transferred Bureau of Fisheries in Department of Commerce, and its functions and functions of Secretary of Commerce relating to protection of fur seals and other fur-bearing animals and supervision of Pribilof Islands and care of natives thereof, to Department of the Interior.

#### Admission of Alaska as State ####

Admission of Alaska into the Union was accomplished Jan. 3, 1959, on issuance of Proc. No. 3269, Jan. 3, 1959, 24 F.R. 81, 73 Stat. c16, as required by sections 1 and 8(c) of Pub. L. 85–508, July 7, 1958, 72 Stat. 339, set out as notes preceding section 21 of Title 48, Territories and Insular Possessions.

### **CHAPTER 5A—PROTECTION AND CONSERVATION OF WILDLIFE** ###

#### SUBCHAPTER I—GAME, FUR-BEARING ANIMALS, AND FISH ####

Sec.
661.Short title; authorization.
662.Impounding, diverting, or controlling of waters.
663.Impoundment or diversion of waters.
664.Administration; rules and regulations; availability of lands to State agencies.
665.Investigations as to effect of sewage, industrial wastes; reports.
665a.Maintenance of adequate water levels in upper Mississippi River.
666.Authorization of appropriations.
666a.Penalties.
666b.Definitions.
666c.Applicability to Tennessee Valley Authority.
666c–1.Protection of water, oceans, coasts, and wildlife from invasive species.
666d.Skagit National Wildlife Refuge; exchange of lands.
666e.Administration of acquired lands.
666f.Wildlife conservation and agricultural, industrial, recreational, and related uses for certain Federal lands; transfer of lands to Secretary of the Interior; administration, development, and disposition.
666g.Classification of lands; industrial leases; moneys subject to section 715s of this title; administration; jurisdiction of Federal agencies.
667.Game management supply depots; appropriations.
667a.Omitted.
667b.Transfer of certain real property for wildlife conservation purposes; reservation of rights.
667c.Publication of designating order.
667d.Reports to Congress.
667e.Repealed.
667f.Availability of grain to prevent waterfowl depredations; payment of packaging, transporting, handling, and other charges.
667f–1.Requisition of grain to prevent crop depredation by migratory waterfowl.
667f–2.Reimbursement of packaging and transporting expenses.
667f–3.Authorization of appropriations for mitigating losses caused by waterfowl depredation.
667g.Requisition of surplus grain; prevention of starvation of resident game birds and other resident wildlife; utilization by State agencies; reimbursement for packaging and transporting.
667g–1.Requisition and use of grain for prevention of starvation of migratory birds; reimbursement for packaging and transporting.
667g–2.Authorization of appropriations for reimbursement of Commodity Credit Corporation.
667h.Chronic Wasting Disease Task Force.
667i.Chronic wasting disease research and management program.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—PROTECTION OF BALD AND GOLDEN EAGLES ####

668.Bald and golden eagles.
668a.Taking and using of the bald and golden eagle for scientific, exhibition, and religious purposes.
668b.Enforcement provisions.
668c.Definitions.
668d.Availability of appropriations for Migratory Bird Treaty Act.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—ENDANGERED SPECIES OF FISH AND WILDLIFE ####

668aa to 668cc–6. Repealed.
668dd.National Wildlife Refuge System.
668ee.Definitions.
668ff to 668ss. Omitted.

### SUBCHAPTER I—GAME, FUR-BEARING ANIMALS, AND FISH ###

