
### §3060. State delegation; cooperation ###

§3060. State delegation; cooperation

#### (a) State delegation ####

#### (1) In general ####

The Authority may enter into an agreement with a State racing commission to implement, within the jurisdiction of the State racing commission, a component of the racetrack safety program or, with the concurrence of the anti-doping and medication control enforcement agency under section 3054(e) of this title, a component of the horseracing anti-doping and medication control program, if the Authority determines that the State racing commission has the ability to implement such component in accordance with the rules, standards, and requirements established by the Authority.

#### (2) Implementation by State racing commission ####

A State racing commission or other appropriate regulatory body of a State may not implement such a component in a manner less restrictive than the rule, standard, or requirement established by the Authority.

#### (b) Cooperation ####

To avoid duplication of functions, facilities, and personnel, and to attain closer coordination and greater effectiveness and economy in administration of Federal and State law, where conduct by any person subject to the horseracing medication control program or the racetrack safety program may involve both a medication control or racetrack safety rule violation and violation of Federal or State law, the Authority and Federal or State law enforcement authorities shall cooperate and share information.

(Pub. L. 116–260, div. FF, title XII, §1211, Dec. 27, 2020, 134 Stat. 3274.)

### **CHAPTER 58—FULL EMPLOYMENT AND BALANCED GROWTH** ###

Sec.
3101.Congressional findings.
3102.Report to Congressional committees.
3103.National Employment Conference.
#### SUBCHAPTER I—STRUCTURAL ECONOMIC POLICIES AND PROGRAMS INCLUDING TREATMENT OF RESOURCE RESTRAINTS ####

3111.Congressional statement of purpose.
3112.Countercyclical employment policies.
3113.Economic activity coordination.
3114.Regional and structural employment policies and programs.
3115.Youth employment policies and programs.
3116.Job training, counseling and reservoirs of employment projects.
3117.Capital formation.
#### SUBCHAPTER II—POLICIES AND PROCEDURES FOR CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW ####

3131.Congressional statement of purpose.
3132.Committee review.
3133.Exercise of rulemaking powers.
#### SUBCHAPTER III—GENERAL PROVISIONS ####

3151.Nondiscrimination.
3152.Labor standards.

