
### §5418. Beer imported in bulk ###

§5418. Beer imported in bulk

Beer imported or brought into the United States in bulk containers may, under such regulations as the Secretary may prescribe, be withdrawn from customs custody and transferred in such bulk containers to the premises of a brewery without payment of the internal revenue tax imposed on such beer. The proprietor of a brewery to which such beer is transferred shall become liable for the tax on the beer withdrawn from customs custody under this section upon release of the beer from customs custody, and the importer, or the person bringing such beer into the United States, shall thereupon be relieved of the liability for such tax.

(Added Pub. L. 105–34, title XIV, §1421(a), Aug. 5, 1997, 111 Stat. 1049.)

#### **Statutory Notes and Related Subsidiaries** ####

#### Effective Date ####

Pub. L. 105–34, title XIV, §1421(c), Aug. 5, 1997, 111 Stat. 1049, provided that: "The amendments made by this section [enacting this section] shall take effect on the 1st day of the 1st calendar quarter that begins at least 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Aug. 5, 1997]."

### **Subchapter H—Miscellaneous Plants and Warehouses** ###

Part
I.Vinegar plants.
II.Volatile fruit-flavor concentrate plants.
[III.Repealed.]

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Prior Provisions ####

A prior subchapter H consisted of parts I to III, prior to the general revision of this chapter by Pub. L. 85–859, title II, §201, Sept. 2, 1958, 72 Stat. 1313.

#### Amendments ####

**1979**—Pub. L. 96–39, title VIII, §807(b)(9), July 26, 1979, 93 Stat. 291, struck out item relating to Part III "Manufacturing bonded warehouses" in table of Parts comprising Subchapter H.

### PART I—VINEGAR PLANTS ###

Sec.
5501.Establishment.
5502.Qualification.
5503.Construction and equipment.
5504.Operation.
5505.Applicability of provisions of this chapter.

#### **Editorial Notes** ####

#### Prior Provisions ####

A prior part I consisted of sections 5501 and 5502, prior to the general revision of this chapter by Pub. L. 85–859, title II, §201, Sept. 2, 1958, 72 Stat. 1313.

